verthrow by passion or doubt. Happiness is never grand.'

'I suppose not,' said the Savage after a silence. 'But need it be quite
so bad as those twins?' He passed his hand over his eyes as though he
were trying to wipe away the remembered image of those long rows of
identical midgets at the assembling tables, those queued-up twin-herds
at the entrance to the Brentford monorail station, those human maggots
swarming round Linda's bed of death, the endlessly repeated face of his
assailants. He looked at his bandaged left hand and shuddered.
'Horrible!'

'But how useful! I see you don't like our Bokanovsky Groups; but, I
assure you, they're the foundation on which everything else is built.
They're the gyroscope that stabilizes the rocket plane of state on its
unswerving course.' The deep voice thrillingly vibrated; the
gesticulating hand implied all space and the onrush of the irresistible
machine. Mustapha Mond's oratory was almost up to synthetic standards.

'I was wondering,' said the Savage, 'why you had them at all--seeing
that you can get whatever you want out of those bottles. Why don't you
make everybody an Alpha Double Plus while you're about it?'

Mustapha Mond laughed. 'Because we have no wish to have our throats
cut,' he answered. 'We believe in happiness and stability. A society of
Alphas couldn't fail to be unstable and miserable. Imagine a factory
staffed by Alphas--that is to say by separate and unrelated individuals
of good heredity and conditioned so as to be capable (within limits) of
making a free choice and assuming responsibilities. Imagine it!' he
repeated.

The Savage tried to imagine it, not very successfully.

'It's an absurdity. An Alpha-decanted, Alpha-conditioned man would go
mad if he had to do Epsilon Semi-Moron work--go mad, or start smashing
things up. Alphas can be completely socialized--but only on condition
that you make them do Alpha work. Only an Epsilon can be expected to
make Epsilon sacrifices, for the good reason that for him they aren't
sacrifices; they're the line of least resistance. His conditioning has
laid down rails along which he's got to run. He can't help himself; he's
foredoomed. Even after decanting, he's still inside a bottle--an
invisible bottle of infantile and embryonic fixations. Each one of us,
of course,' the Controller meditatively continued, 'goes through life
inside a bottle. But if we happen to be Alphas, our bottles are,
relatively speaking, enormous. We should suffer acutely if we were
confined in a narrower space. You cannot pour upper-caste
champagne-surrogate into lower-caste bottles. It's obvious
theoretically. But it has also been proved in actual practice. The
result of the Cyprus experiment was convincing.'

'What was that?' asked the Savage.

Mustapha Mond smiled. 'Well, you can call it an experiment in rebottling
if you like. It began in A.F. 473. The Controllers had the island of
Cyprus cleared of all its existing inhabitants and re-colonized with a
specially prepared batch of twenty-two thousand Alphas. All agricultural
and industrial equipment was handed over to them and they were left to
manage their own affairs. The result exactly fulfilled all the
theoretical predictions. The land wasn't properly worked; there were
strikes in all the factories; the laws were set at naught, orders
disobeyed; all the people detailed for a spell of low-grade work were
perpetually intriguing for high-grade jobs, and all the people with
high-grade jobs were counter-intriguing at all costs to stay where they
were. Within six years they were having a first-class civil war. When
nineteen out of the twenty-two thousand had been killed, the survivors
unanimously petitioned the World Controllers to resume the government of
the island. Which they did. And that was the end of the only society of
Alphas that the world has ever seen.'

The Savage sighed, profoundly.

'The optimum population,' said Mustapha Mond, 'is modelled on the
iceberg--eight-ninths below the water line, one-ninth above.'

'And they're happy below the water line?'

'Happier than above it. Happier than yo