n the ordinary
erotic play. I'd noticed it once or twice before. And now again to-day.
He started yelling just now...'

'Honestly,' put in the anxious-looking little girl, 'I didn't mean to
hurt him or anything. Honestly.'

'Of course you didn't, dear,' said the nurse reassuringly. 'And so,' she
went on, turning back to the Director, 'I'm taking him in to see the
Assistant Superintendent of Psychology. Just to see if anything's at all
abnormal.'

'Quite right,' said the Director. 'Take him in. You stay here, little
girl,' he added, as the nurse moved away with her still howling charge.
'What's your name?'

'Polly Trotsky.'

'And a very good name too,' said the Director. 'Run away now and see if
you can find some other little boy to play with.'

The child scampered off into the bushes and was lost to sight.

'Exquisite little creature!' said the Director, looking after her. Then,
turning to his students, 'What I'm going to tell you now,' he said, 'may
sound incredible. But then, when you're not accustomed to history, most
facts about the past _do_ sound incredible.'

He let out the amazing truth. For a very long period before the time of
Our Ford, and even for some generations afterwards, erotic play between
children had been regarded as abnormal (there was a roar of laughter);
and not only abnormal, actually immoral (no!): and had therefore been
rigorously suppressed.

A look of astonished incredulity appeared on the faces of his listeners.
Poor little kids not allowed to amuse themselves? They could not believe
it.

'Even adolescents,' the D.H.C. was saying, 'even adolescents like
yourselves...'

'Not possible!'

'Barring a little surreptitious auto-erotism and
homosexuality--absolutely nothing.'

'_Nothing?_'

'In most cases, till they were over twenty years old.'

'Twenty years old?' echoed the students in a chorus of loud disbelief.

'Twenty,' the Director repeated. 'I told you that you'd find it
incredible.'

'But what happened?' they asked. 'What were the results?'

'The results were terrible.' A deep resonant voice broke startlingly
into the dialogue.

They looked round. On the fringe of the little group stood a stranger--a
man of middle height, black-haired, with a hooked nose, full red lips,
eyes very piercing and dark. 'Terrible,' he repeated.

The D.H.C. had at that moment sat down on one of the steel and rubber
benches conveniently scattered through the gardens; but at the sight of
the stranger, he sprang to his feet and darted forward, his hands
outstretched, smiling with all his teeth, effusive.

'Controller! What an unexpected pleasure! Boys, what are you thinking
of? This is the Controller; this is his fordship, Mustapha Mond.'

****

In the four thousand rooms of the Centre the four thousand electric
clocks simultaneously struck four. Discarnate voices called from the
trumpet mouths.

'Main Day-shift off duty. Second Day-shift take over. Main Day-shift
off...'

In the lift, on their way up to the changing-rooms, Henry Foster and the
Assistant Director of Predestination rather pointedly turned their backs
on Bernard Marx from the Psychology Bureau: averted themselves from that
unsavoury reputation.

The faint hum and rattle of machinery still stirred the crimson air in
the Embryo-Store. Shifts might come and go, one lupus-coloured face give
place to another; majestically and for ever the conveyors crept forward
with their load of future men and women.

Lenina Crowne walked briskly towards the door.

****

His fordship Mustapha Mond! The eyes of the saluting students almost
popped out of their heads. Mustapha Mond! The Resident Controller for
Western Europe! One of the Ten World Controllers. One of the Ten...
and he sat down on the bench with the D.H.C., he was going to stay, to
stay, yes, and actually talk to them... straight from the horse's
mouth. Straight from the mouth of Ford himself.

Two shrimp-brown children emerged from a neighbouring shrubbery, stared
at them for a moment with large, astonished eyes, then returned to their
amusements among the leaves.

'You all remember,' said the Controller, in