lways fine;
              For
              There ain't no Bottle in all the world
              Like that dear little Bottle of mine.

Five-stepping with the other four hundred round and round Westminster
Abbey, Lenina and Henry were yet dancing in another world--the warm, the
richly coloured, the infinitely friendly world of _soma_-holiday. How
kind, how good-looking, how delightfully amusing every one was! 'Bottle
of mine, it's you I've always wanted...' But Lenina and Henry had
what they wanted... They were inside, here and now--safely inside
with the fine weather, the perennially blue sky. And when, exhausted,
the Sixteen had laid by their sexophones and the Synthetic Music
apparatus was producing the very latest in slow Malthusian Blues, they
might have been twin embryos gently rocking together on the waves of a
bottled ocean of blood-surrogate.

'Good-night, dear friends. Good-night, dear friends.' The loud-speakers
veiled their commands in a genial and musical politeness. Good-night,
dear friends....'

Obediently, with all the others, Lenina and Henry left the building. The
depressing stars had travelled quite some way across the heavens. But
though the separating screen of the sky-signs had now to a great extent
dissolved, the two young people still retained their happy ignorance of
the night.

Swallowed half an hour before closing time, that second dose of _soma_
had raised a quite impenetrable wall between the actual universe and
their minds. Bottled, they crossed the street; bottled, they took the
lift up to Henry's room on the twenty-eighth floor. And yet, bottled as
she was, and in spite of that second gramme of _soma_, Lenina did not
forget to take all the contraceptive precautions prescribed by the
regulations. Years of intensive hypnopædia and, from twelve to
seventeen, Malthusian drill three times a week had made the taking of
these precautions almost as automatic and inevitable as blinking.

'Oh, and that reminds me,' she said, as she came back from the bathroom,
'Fanny Crowne wants to know where you found that lovely green
morocco-surrogate cartridge belt you gave me.'


                                  § 2

Alternate Thursdays were Bernard's Solidarity Service days. After an
early dinner at the Aphroditæum (to which Helmholtz had recently been
elected under Rule Two) he took leave of his friend and, hailing a taxi
on the roof, told the man to fly to the Fordson Community Singery. The
machine rose a couple of hundred metres, then headed eastwards, and as
it turned, there before Bernard's eyes, gigantically beautiful, was the
Singery. Flood-lighted, its three hundred and twenty metres of white
Carrara-surrogate gleamed with a snowy incandescence over Ludgate Hill;
at each of the four corners of its helicopter platform an immense T
shone crimson against the night, and from the mouths of twenty-four vast
golden trumpets rumbled a solemn synthetic music.

'Damn, I'm late,' Bernard said to himself as he first caught sight of
Big Henry, the Singery clock. And sure enough, as he was paying off his
cab, Big Henry sounded the hour. 'Ford,' sang out an immense bass voice
from all the golden trumpets. 'Ford, Ford, Ford...' Nine times.
Bernard ran for the lift.

The great auditorium for Ford's Day celebrations and other massed
Community Sings was at the bottom of the building. Above it, a hundred
to each floor, were the seven thousand rooms used by Solidarity Groups
for their fortnightly services. Bernard dropped down to floor
thirty-three, hurried along the corridor, stood hesitating for a moment
outside Room 3210, then, having wound himself up, opened the door and
walked in.

Thank Ford! he was not the last. Three chairs of the twelve arranged
round the circular table were still unoccupied. He slipped into the
nearest of them as inconspicuously as he could and prepared to frown at
the yet later comers whenever they should arrive.

Turning towards him, 'What were you playing this afternoon?' the girl on
his left enquired. 'Obstacle, or Electro-magnetic?'

Bernard looked at her (Ford! it was Morgana Rothschild) 