g, ending is
better than mending, ending is better...'

****

'Government's an affair of sitting, not hitting. You rule with the
brains and the buttocks, never with the fists. For example, there was
the conscription of consumption.'

****

'There, I'm ready,' said Lenina; but Fanny remained speechless and
averted. 'Let's make peace, Fanny darling.'

****

'Every man, woman and child compelled to consume so much a year. In the
interests of industry. The sole result...'

****

'Ending is better than mending. The more stitches, the less riches; the
more stitches...'

****

'One of these days,' said Fanny, with dismal emphasis, 'you'll get into
trouble.'

****

'Conscientious objection on an enormous scale. Anything not to consume.
Back to nature.'

****

'I do love flying, I do love flying.'

****

'Back to culture. Yes, actually to culture. You can't consume much if
you sit still and read books.'

****

'Do I look all right?' Lenina asked. Her jacket was made of bottle-green
acetate cloth with green viscose fur at the cuffs and collar.

****

'Eight hundred Simple Lifers were mowed down by machine guns at Golders
Green.'

****

'Ending is better than mending, ending is better than mending.'

****

Green corduroy shorts and white viscose-woollen stockings turned down
below the knee.

****

'Then came the famous British Museum Massacre. Two thousand culture fans
gassed with dichlorethyl sulphide.'

****

A green-and-white jockey cap shaded Lenina's eyes; her shoes were bright
green and highly polished.

****

'In the end,' said Mustapha Mond, 'the Controllers realized that force
was no good. The slower but infinitely surer methods of ectogenesis,
Neo-Pavlovian conditioning and hypnopædia...'

****

And round her waist she wore a silver-mounted green morocco-surrogate
cartridge belt, bulging (for Lenina was not a freemartin) with the
regulation supply of contraceptives.

****

'The discoveries of Pfitzner and Kawaguchi were at last made use of. An
intensive propaganda against viviparous reproduction...'

****

'Perfect!' cried Fanny enthusiastically. She could never resist Lenina's
charm for long. 'And what a perfectly _sweet_ Malthusian belt!'

****

'Accompanied by a campaign against the Past; by the closing of museums,
the blowing up of historical monuments (luckily most of them had already
been destroyed during the Nine Years' War); by the suppression of all
books published before A.F. 150.'

****

'I simply must get one like it,' said Fanny.

****

'There were some things called the pyramids, for example.'

****

'My old black-patent bandolier...'

****

'And a man called Shakespeare. You've never heard of them of course.'

****

'It's an absolute disgrace--that bandolier of mine.'

****

'Such are the advantages of a really scientific education.'

****

'The more stitches the less riches; the more stitches the less...'

****

'The introduction of Our Ford's first T-Model...'

****

'I've had it nearly three months.'

****

'Chosen as the opening date of the new era.'

****

'Ending is better than mending; ending is better...'

****

'There was a thing, as I've said before, called Christianity.'

****

'Ending is better than mending.'

****

'The ethics and philosophy of under-consumption...'

****

'I love new clothes, I love new clothes, I love...'

****

'So essential when there was under-production; but in an age of machines
and the fixation of nitrogen--positively a crime against society.'

****

'Henry Foster gave it me.'

****

'All crosses had their tops cut and became T's. There was also a thing
called God.'

****

'It's real morocco-surrogate.'

****

'We have the World State now. And Ford's Day celebrations, and Community
Sings, and Solidarity Services.'

****

'Ford, how I hate them!' Bernard Marx was thinking.

****

'There was a thing called Heaven; but all the same they used to drink
enormous quantities of alcohol.'

****

'Like meat, like so much meat.'

****

'There was a thing called the soul and a thing called immortality.'

****

'Do ask Henry where he got it.'

****

'But they used to take morphia an