ottler or the Assistant Predestinator. As a
victim, the Savage possessed, for Bernard, this enormous superiority
over the others: that he was accessible. One of the principal functions
of a friend is to suffer (in a milder and symbolic form) the punishments
that we should like, but are unable, to inflict upon our enemies.

Bernard's other victim-friend was Helmholtz. When, discomfited, he came
and asked once more for the friendship which in his prosperity he had
not thought it worth his while to preserve, Helmholtz gave it; and gave
it without a reproach, without a comment, as though he had forgotten
that there had ever been a quarrel. Touched, Bernard felt himself at the
same time humiliated by this magnanimity--a magnanimity the more
extraordinary and therefore the more humiliating in that it owed nothing
to _soma_ and everything to Helmholtz's character. It was the Helmholtz
of daily life who forgot and forgave, not the Helmholtz of a half-gramme
holiday. Bernard was duly grateful (it was an enormous comfort to have
his friend again) and also duly resentful (it would be a pleasure to
take some revenge on Helmholtz for his generosity.)

At their first meeting after the estrangement, Bernard poured out the
tale of his miseries and accepted consolation. It was not till some days
later that he learned, to his surprise and with a twinge of shame, that
he was not the only one who had been in trouble. Helmholtz had also come
into conflict with Authority.

'It was over some rhymes,' he explained. 'I was giving my usual course
of Advanced Emotional Engineering for Third Year Students. Twelve
lectures, of which the seventh is about rhymes. "On the Use of Rhymes in
Moral Propaganda and Advertisement," to be precise. I always illustrate
my lecture with a lot of technical examples. This time I thought I'd
give them one I'd just written myself. Pure madness, of course; but I
couldn't resist it.' He laughed. 'I was curious to see what their
reactions would be. Besides,' he added more gravely, 'I wanted to do a
bit of propaganda; I was trying to engineer them into feeling as I'd
felt when I wrote the rhymes. Ford!' He laughed again. 'What an outcry
there was! The Principal had me up and threatened to hand me the
immediate sack. I'm a marked man.'

'But what were your rhymes?' Bernard asked.

'They were about being alone.'

Bernard's eyebrows went up.

'I'll recite them to you, if you like.' And Helmholtz began:

                   'Yesterday's committee,
                   Sticks, but a broken drum,
                   Midnight in the City,
                   Flutes in a vacuum,
                   Shut lips, sleeping faces,
                   Every stopped machine,
                   The dumb and littered places
                   Where crowds have been--
                   All silences rejoice,
                   Weep (loudly or low),
                   Speak--but with the voice
                   Of whom, I do not know.
                   Absence, say, of Susan's,
                   Absence of Egeria's
                   Arms and respective bosoms,
                   Lips and, ah, posteriors,
                   Slowly form a presence;
                   Whose? and, I ask, of what
                   So absurd an essence,
                   That something, which is not,
                   Nevertheless should populate
                   Empty night more solidly
                   Than that with which we copulate,
                   Why should it seem so squalidly?

Well, I gave them that as an example, and they reported me to the
Principal.'

'I'm not surprised,' said Bernard. 'It's flatly against all their
sleep-teaching. Remember, they've had at least a quarter of a million
warnings against solitude.'

'I know. But I thought I'd like to see what the effect would be.'

'Well, you've seen now.'

Helmholtz only laughed. 'I feel,' he said, after a silence, 'as though I
were just beginning to have something to write about. As though I were
beginning to be able to use that power I feel I've got inside me--that
extra, latent power. Somethin