o Helmholtz Watson.'

'...upwards of five thousand kilometres of fencing at sixty thousand
volts.'

'You don't say so,' said Lenina politely, not knowing in the least what
the Warden had said, but taking her cue from his dramatic pause. When
the Warden started booming, she had inconspicuously swallowed half a
gramme of _soma_, with the result that she could now sit, serenely not
listening, thinking of nothing at all, but with her large blue eyes
fixed on the Warden's face in an expression of rapt attention.

'To touch the fence is instant death,' pronounced the Warden solemnly.
'There is no escape from a Savage Reservation.'

The word 'escape' was suggestive. 'Perhaps,' said Bernard, half rising,
'we ought to think of going.' The little black needle was scurrying, an
insect, nibbling through time, eating into his money.

'No escape,' repeated the Warden, waving him back into his chair; and as
the permit was not yet countersigned, Bernard had no choice but to obey.
'Those who are born in the Reservation--and remember, my dear young
lady,' he added, leering obscenely at Lenina, and speaking in an
improper whisper, 'remember that, in the Reservation, children still
_are_ born, yes, actually born, revolting as that may seem...' (He
hoped that this reference to a shameful subject would make Lenina blush;
but she only smiled with simulated intelligence and said, 'You don't say
so!' Disappointed, the Warden began again.) 'Those, I repeat, who are
born in the Reservation are destined to die there.'

Destined to die... A decilitre of eau-de-Cologne every minute. Six
litres an hour. 'Perhaps,' Bernard tried again, 'we ought...'

Leaning forward, the Director tapped the table with his forefinger. 'You
ask me how many people live in the Reservation. And I
reply'--triumphantly--'I reply that we do not know. We can only guess.'

'You don't say so.'

'My dear young lady, I do say so.'

Six times twenty-four--no, it would be nearer six times thirty-six.
Bernard was pale and trembling with impatience. But inexorably the
booming continued.

'...about sixty thousand Indians and half-breeds... absolute
savages... our inspectors occasionally visit... otherwise, no
communication whatever with the civilized world... still preserve
their repulsive habits and customs... marriage, if you know what that
is, my dear young lady; families... no conditioning... monstrous
superstitions... Christianity and totemism and ancestor worship...
extinct languages, such as Zuñi and Spanish and Athapascan... pumas,
porcupines and other ferocious animals... infectious diseases...
priests... venomous lizards...'

'You don't say so?'

They got away at last. Bernard dashed to the telephone. Quick, quick;
but it took him nearly three minutes to get on to Helmholtz Watson. 'We
might be among the savages already,' he complained. 'Damned
incompetence!'

'Have a gramme,' suggested Lenina.

He refused, preferring his anger. And at last, thank Ford, he was
through and, yes, it was Helmholtz; Helmholtz, to whom he explained what
had happened, and who promised to go round at once, at once, and turn
off the tap, yes, at once, but took this opportunity to tell him what
the D.H.C. had said, in public, yesterday evening...

'What? He's looking out for some one to take my place?' Bernard's voice
was agonized. 'So it's actually decided? Did he mention Iceland? You say
he did? Ford! Iceland...' He hung up the receiver and turned back to
Lenina. His face was pale, his expression utterly dejected.

'What's the matter?' she asked.

'The matter?' He dropped heavily into a chair. 'I'm going to be sent to
Iceland.'

Often in the past he had wondered what it would be like to be subjected
(_soma_-less and with nothing but his own inward resources to rely on)
to some great trial, some pain, some persecution; he had even longed for
affliction. As recently as a week ago, in the Director's office, he had
imagined himself courageously resisting, stoically accepting suffering
without a word. The Director's threats had actually elated him, made him
feel larger than life. But that, as he now reali