. 'And not to Iceland. Oh, please, your
fordship, please...' And in a paroxysm of abjection he threw himself
on his knees before the Controller. Mustapha Mond tried to make him get
up; but Bernard persisted in his grovelling; the stream of words poured
out inexhaustibly. In the end the Controller had to ring for his fourth
secretary.

'Bring three men,' he ordered, 'and take Mr. Marx into a bedroom. Give
him a good _soma_ vaporization and then put him to bed and leave him.'

The fourth secretary went out and returned with three green-uniformed
twin footmen. Still shouting and sobbing, Bernard was carried out.

'One would think he was going to have his throat cut,' said the
Controller, as the door closed. 'Whereas, if he had the smallest sense,
he'd understand that his punishment is really a reward. He's being sent
to an island. That's to say, he's being sent to a place where he'll meet
the most interesting set of men and women to be found anywhere in the
world. All the people who, for one reason or another, have got too
self-consciously individual to fit into community-life. All the people
who aren't satisfied with orthodoxy, who've got independent ideas of
their own. Every one, in a word, who's any one. I almost envy you, Mr.
Watson.'

Helmholtz laughed. 'Then why aren't you on an island yourself?'

'Because, finally, I preferred this,' the Controller answered. 'I was
given the choice: to be sent to an island, where I could have got on
with my pure science, or to be taken on to the Controllers' Council with
the prospect of succeeding in due course to an actual Controllership. I
chose this and let the science go.' After a little silence, 'Sometimes,'
he added, 'I rather regret the science. Happiness is a hard
master--particularly other people's happiness. A much harder master, if
one isn't conditioned to accept it unquestioningly, than truth.' He
sighed, fell silent again, then continued in a brisker tone. 'Well,
duty's duty. One can't consult one's own preferences. I'm interested in
truth, I like science. But truth's a menace, science is a public danger.
As dangerous as it's been beneficent. It has given us the stablest
equilibrium in history. China's was hopelessly insecure by comparison;
even the primitive matriarchies weren't steadier than we are. Thanks, I
repeat, to science. But we can't allow science to undo its own good
work. That's why we so carefully limit the scope of its
researches--that's why I almost got sent to an island. We don't allow it
to deal with any but the most immediate problems of the moment. All
other enquiries are most sedulously discouraged. It's curious,' he went
on after a little pause, 'to read what people in the time of Our Ford
used to write about scientific progress. They seemed to have imagined
that it could be allowed to go on indefinitely, regardless of everything
else. Knowledge was the highest good, truth the supreme value; all the
rest was secondary and subordinate. True, ideas were beginning to change
even then. Our Ford himself did a great deal to shift the emphasis from
truth and beauty to comfort and happiness. Mass production demanded the
shift. Universal happiness keeps the wheels steadily turning; truth and
beauty can't. And, of course, whenever the masses seized political
power, then it was happiness rather than truth and beauty that mattered.
Still, in spite of everything, unrestricted scientific research was
still permitted. People still went on talking about truth and beauty as
though they were the sovereign goods. Right up to the time of the Nine
Years' War. _That_ made them change their tune all right. What's the
point of truth or beauty or knowledge when the anthrax bombs are popping
all around you? That was when science first began to be
controlled--after the Nine Years' War. People were ready to have even
their appetites controlled then. Anything for a quiet life. We've gone
on controlling ever since. It hasn't been very good for truth, of
course. But it's been very good for happiness. One can't have something
for nothing. Happiness has got to be paid for. You're pa