zed, was because he had
not taken the threats quite seriously; he had not believed that, when it
came to the point, the D.H.C. would ever do anything. Now that it looked
as though the threats were really to be fulfilled, Bernard was appalled.
Of that imagined stoicism, that theoretical courage, not a trace was
left.

He raged against himself--what a fool!--against the Director--how
unfair not to give him that other chance, that other chance which,
he now had no doubt at all, he had always intended to take. And
Iceland, Iceland...

Lenina shook her head. 'Was and will make me ill,' she quoted, 'I take a
gramme and only am.'

In the end she persuaded him to swallow four tablets of _soma_. Five
minutes later roots and fruits were abolished; the flower of the present
rosily blossomed. A message from the porter announced that, at the
Warden's orders, a Reservation Guard had come round with a plane and was
waiting on the roof of the hotel. They went up at once. An octoroon in
Gamma-green uniform saluted and proceeded to recite the morning's
programme.

A bird's-eye view of ten or a dozen of the principal pueblos, then a
landing for lunch in the valley of Malpais. The rest-house was
comfortable there, and up at the pueblo the savages would probably be
celebrating their summer festival. It would be the best place to spend
the night.

They took their seats in the plane and set off. Ten minutes later they
were crossing the frontier that separated civilization from savagery.
Uphill and down, across the deserts of salt or sand, through forests,
into the violet depth of canyons, over crag and peak and table-topped
mesa, the fence marched on and on, irresistibly the straight line, the
geometrical symbol of triumphant human purpose. And at its foot, here
and there, a mosaic of white bones, a still unrotted carcase dark on the
tawny ground marked the place where deer or steer, puma or porcupine or
coyote, or the greedy turkey buzzards drawn down by the whiff of carrion
and fulminated as though by a poetic justice, had come too close to the
destroying wires.

'They never learn,' said the green-uniformed pilot, pointing down at the
skeletons on the ground below them. 'And they never will learn,' he
added and laughed, as though he had somehow scored a personal triumph
over the electrocuted animals.

Bernard also laughed; after two grammes of _soma_ the joke seemed, for
some reason, good. Laughed and then, almost immediately, dropped off to
sleep and, sleeping, was carried over Taos and Tesuque; over Nambe and
Picuris and Pojoaque, over Sia and Cochiti, over Laguna and Acoma and
the Enchanted Mesa, over Zuñi and Cibola and Ojo Caliente, and woke at
last to find the machine standing on the ground, Lenina carrying the
suit-cases into a small square house, and the Gamma-green octoroon
talking incomprehensibly with a young Indian.

'Malpais,' explained the pilot, as Bernard stepped out. 'This is the
rest-house. And there's a dance this afternoon at the pueblo. He'll take
you there.' He pointed to the sullen young savage. 'Funny, I expect.' He
grinned. 'Everything they do is funny.' And with that he climbed into
the plane and started up the engines. 'Back to-morrow. And remember,' he
added reassuringly to Lenina, 'they're perfectly tame; savages won't do
you any harm. They've got enough experience of gas bombs to know that
they mustn't play any tricks.' Still laughing, he threw the helicopter
screws into gear, accelerated, and was gone.




                              Chapter VII




The mesa was like a ship becalmed in a strait of lion-coloured dust. The
channel wound between precipitous banks, and slanting from one wall to
the other across the valley ran a streak of green--the river and its
fields. On the prow of that stone ship in the centre of the strait, and
seemingly a part of it, a shaped and geometrical outcrop of the naked
rock, stood the pueblo of Malpais. Block above block, each story smaller
than the one below, the tall houses rose like stepped and amputated
pyramids into the blue sky. At their feet lay a straggle of low
buildings,