 his strong deep voice, 'you
all remember, I suppose, that beautiful and inspired saying of Our
Ford's: History is bunk. History,' he repeated slowly, 'is bunk.'

He waved his hand; and it was as though, with an invisible feather
whisk, he had brushed away a little dust, and the dust was Harappa, was
Ur of the Chaldees; some spider-webs, and they were Thebes and Babylon
and Cnossos and Mycenae. Whisk, Whisk--and where was Odysseus, where was
Job, where were Jupiter and Gotama and Jesus? Whisk--and those specks of
antique dirt called Athens and Rome, Jerusalem and the Middle
Kingdom--all were gone. Whisk--the place where Italy had been was empty.
Whisk, the cathedrals; whisk, whisk, King Lear and the Thoughts of
Pascal. Whisk, Passion: whisk, Requiem; whisk, Symphony; whisk...

****

'Going to the Feelies this evening, Henry?' enquired the Assistant
Predestinator. 'I hear the new one at the Alhambra is first-rate.
There's a love scene on a bearskin rug; they say it's marvellous. Every
hair of the bear reproduced. The most amazing tactual effects.'

****

'That's why you're taught no history,' the Controller was saying. 'But
now the time has come...'

The D.H.C. looked at him nervously. There were those strange rumours of
old forbidden books hidden in a safe in the Controller's study. Bibles,
poetry--Ford knew what.

Mustapha Mond intercepted his anxious glance and the corners of his red
lips twitched ironically.

'It's all right, Director,' he said in a tone of faint derision, 'I
won't corrupt them.'

The D.H.C. was overwhelmed with confusion.

****

Those who feel themselves despised do well to look despising. The smile
on Bernard Marx's face was contemptuous. Every hair on the bear indeed!

'I shall make a point of going,' said Henry Foster.

****

Mustapha Mond leaned forward, shook a finger at them. 'Just try to
realize it,' he said, and his voice sent a strange thrill quivering
along their diaphragms. 'Try to realize what it was like to have a
viviparous mother.'

That smutty word again. But none of them dreamed, this time, of smiling.

'Try to imagine what "living with one's family" meant.'

They tried; but obviously without the smallest success.

'And do you know what a "home" was?'

They shook their heads.

****

From her dim crimson cellar Lenina Crowne shot up seventeen stories,
turned to the right as she stepped out of the lift, walked down a long
corridor and, opening the door marked =Girls' Dressing-Room=,
plunged into a deafening chaos of arms and bosoms and underclothing.
Torrents of hot water were splashing into or gurgling out of a hundred
baths. Rumbling and hissing, eighty vibro-vacuum massage machines were
simultaneously kneading and sucking the firm and sunburnt flesh of
eighty superb female specimens. Every one was talking at the top of her
voice. A Synthetic Music machine was warbling out a super-cornet solo.

'Hullo, Fanny,' said Lenina to the young woman who had the pegs and
locker next to hers.

Fanny worked in the Bottling Room, and her surname was also Crowne. But
as the two thousand million inhabitants of the planet had only ten
thousand names between them, the coincidence was not particularly
surprising.

Lenina pulled at her zippers--downwards on the jacket, downwards with a
double-handed gesture at the two that held trousers, downwards again to
loosen her undergarment. Still wearing her shoes and stockings, she
walked off towards the bathrooms.

****

Home, home--a few small rooms, stiflingly over-inhabited by a man, by a
periodically teeming woman, by a rabble of boys and girls of all ages.
No air, no space; an understerilized prison; darkness, disease, and
smells.

(The Controller's evocation was so vivid that one of the boys, more
sensitive than the rest, turned pale at the mere description and was on
the point of being sick.)

****

Lenina got out of the bath, towelled herself dry, took hold of a long
flexible tube plugged into the wall, presented the nozzle to her breast,
as though she meant to commit suicide, pressed down the trigger. A blast
of warmed air dusted her with the finest t