ages, and we rode
about on horses and all that. And then--it was almost the last day of my
leave--then... well, she got lost. We'd gone riding up one of those
revolting mountains, and it was horribly hot and oppressive, and after
lunch we went to sleep. Or at least I did. She must have gone for a
walk, alone. At any rate, when I woke up, she wasn't there. And the most
frightful thunderstorm I've ever seen was just bursting on us. And it
poured and roared and flashed; and the horses broke loose and ran away;
and I fell down, trying to catch them, and hurt my knee, so that I could
hardly walk. Still, I searched and I shouted and I searched. But there
was no sign of her. Then I thought she must have gone back to the
rest-house by herself. So I crawled down into the valley by the way we
had come. My knee was agonizingly painful, and I'd lost my _soma_. It
took me hours. I didn't get back to the rest-house till after midnight.
And she wasn't there; she wasn't there,' the Director repeated. There
was a silence. 'Well,' he resumed at last, 'the next day there was a
search. But we couldn't find her. She must have fallen into a gulley
somewhere; or been eaten by a mountain lion. Ford knows. Anyhow it was
horrible. It upset me very much at the time. More than it ought to have
done, I dare say. Because, after all, it's the sort of accident that
might have happened to any one; and, of course, the social body persists
although the component cells may change.' But this sleep-taught
consolation did not seem to be very effective. Shaking his head, 'I
actually dream about it sometimes,' the Director went on in a low voice.
'Dream of being woken up by that peal of thunder and finding her gone;
dream of searching and searching for her under the trees.' He lapsed
into the silence of reminiscence.

'You must have had a terrible shock,' said Bernard, almost enviously.

At the sound of his voice the Director started into a guilty realization
of where he was; shot a glance at Bernard, and averting his eyes,
blushed darkly; looked at him again with sudden suspicion and, angrily
on his dignity, 'Don't imagine,' he said, 'that I'd had any indecorous
relation with the girl. Nothing emotional, nothing long-drawn. It was
all perfectly healthy and normal.' He handed Bernard the permit. 'I
really don't know why I bored you with this trivial anecdote.' Furious
with himself for having given away a discreditable secret, he vented his
rage on Bernard. The look in his eyes was now frankly malignant. 'And I
should like to take this opportunity, Mr. Marx,' he went on, 'of saying
that I'm not at all pleased with the reports I receive of your behaviour
outside working hours. You may say that this is not my business. But it
is. I have the good name of the Centre to think of. My workers must be
above suspicion, particularly those of the highest castes. Alphas are so
conditioned that they do not _have_ to be infantile in their emotional
behaviour. But that is all the more reason for their making a special
effort to conform. It is their duty to be infantile, even against their
inclination. And so, Mr. Marx, I give you fair warning.' The Director's
voice vibrated with an indignation that had now become wholly righteous
and impersonal--was the expression of the disapproval of Society itself.
'If ever I hear again of any lapse from a proper standard of infantile
decorum, I shall ask for your transference to a Sub-Centre--preferably
to Iceland. Good morning.' And swivelling round in his chair, he picked
up his pen and began to write.

'That'll teach him,' he said to himself. But he was mistaken. For
Bernard left the room with a swagger, exulting, as he banged the door
behind him, in the thought that he stood alone, embattled against the
order of things; elated by the intoxicating consciousness of his
individual significance and importance. Even the thought of persecution
left him undismayed, was rather tonic than depressing. He felt strong
enough to meet and overcome affliction, strong enough to face even
Iceland. And this confidence was the greater for his not for a m