s him, to dismiss him with ignominy from the post he has held in
this Centre; I propose forthwith to apply for his transference to a
Sub-Centre of the lowest order and, that his punishment may serve the
best interest of Society, as far as possible removed from any important
Centre of population. In Iceland he will have small opportunity to lead
others astray by his unfordly example.' The Director paused; then,
folding his arms, he turned impressively to Bernard. 'Marx,' he said,
'can you show any reason why I should not now execute the judgment
passed upon you?'

'Yes, I can,' Bernard answered in a very loud voice.

Somewhat taken aback, but still majestically, 'Then show it,' said the
Director.

'Certainly. But it's in the passage. One moment.' Bernard hurried to the
door and threw it open. 'Come in,' he commanded, and the reason came in
and showed itself.

There was a gasp, a murmur of astonishment and horror; a young girl
screamed; standing on a chair to get a better view some one upset two
test-tubes full of spermatozoa. Bloated, sagging, and among those firm
youthful bodies, those undistorted faces, a strange and terrifying
monster of middle-agedness, Linda advanced into the room, coquettishly
smiling her broken and discoloured smile, and rolling as she walked,
with what was meant to be a voluptuous undulation, her enormous
haunches. Bernard walked beside her.

'There he is,' he said, pointing at the Director.

'Did you think I didn't recognize him?' Linda asked indignantly; then,
turning to the Director, 'Of course I knew you; Tomakin, I should have
known you anywhere, among a thousand. But perhaps you've forgotten me.
Don't you remember? Don't you remember, Tomakin? Your Linda.' She stood
looking at him, her head on one side, still smiling, but with a smile
that became progressively, in face of the Director's expression of
petrified disgust, less and less self-confident, that wavered and
finally went out. 'Don't you remember, Tomakin?' she repeated in a voice
that trembled. Her eyes were anxious, agonized. The blotched and sagging
face twitched grotesquely into the grimace of extreme grief. 'Tomakin!'
She held out her arms. Some one began to titter.

'What's the meaning,' began the Director, 'of this monstrous...'

'Tomakin!' She ran forward, her blanket trailing behind her, threw her
arms round his neck, hid her face on his chest.

A howl of laughter went up irrepressibly.

'...this monstrous practical joke,' the Director shouted.

Red in the face, he tried to disengage himself from her embrace.
Desperately she clung. 'But I'm Linda, I'm Linda.' The laughter drowned
her voice. 'You made me have a baby,' she screamed above the uproar.
There was a sudden and appalling hush; eyes floated uncomfortably, not
knowing where to look. The Director went suddenly pale, stopped
struggling and stood, his hands on her wrists, staring down at her,
horrified. 'Yes, a baby--and I was its mother.' She flung the obscenity
like a challenge into the outraged silence; then, suddenly breaking away
from him, ashamed, ashamed, covered her face with her hands, sobbing.
'It wasn't my fault, Tomakin. Because I always did my drill, didn't I?
Didn't I? Always... I don't know how... If you knew how awful,
Tomakin... But he was a comfort to me, all the same.' Turning towards
the door, 'John!' she called. 'John!'

He came in at once, paused for a moment just inside the door, looked
round, then soft on his moccasined feet strode quickly across the room,
fell on his knees in front of the Director, and said in a clear voice:
'My father!'

The word (for 'father' was not so much obscene as--with its connotation
of something at one remove from the loathsomeness and moral obliquity of
child-bearing--merely gross, a scatological rather than a pornographic
impropriety), the comically smutty word relieved what had become a quite
intolerable tension. Laughter broke out, enormous, almost hysterical,
peal after peal, as though it would never stop. My father--and it was
the Director! My _father!_ Oh, Ford, oh Ford! That was really too good.
The whooping and t