e Savage to his lighthouse; the near was as
seductive as the far. The woods, the open stretches of heather and
yellow gorse, the clumps of Scotch firs, the shining ponds with their
overhanging birch trees, their water lilies, their beds of rushes--these
were beautiful and, to an eye accustomed to the aridities of the
American desert, astonishing. And then the solitude! Whole days passed
during which he never saw a human being. The lighthouse was only a
quarter of an hour's flight from the Charing-T Tower; but the hills of
Malpais were hardly more deserted than this Surrey heath. The crowds
that daily left London left it only to play Electro-magnetic Golf or
Tennis. Puttenham possessed no links; the nearest Riemann-surfaces were
at Guildford. Flowers and a landscape were the only attractions here.
And so, as there was no good reason for coming, nobody came. During the
first days the Savage lived alone and undisturbed.

Of the money which, on his first arrival, John had received for his
personal expenses, most had been spent on his equipment. Before leaving
London he had bought four viscose-woollen blankets, rope and string,
nails, glue, a few tools, matches (though he intended in due course to
make a fire drill), some pots and pans, two dozen packets of seeds, and
ten kilogrammes of wheat flour. 'No, _not_ synthetic starch and
cotton-waste flour-substitute,' he had insisted. 'Even though it is more
nourishing.' But when it came to pan-glandular biscuits and vitaminized
beef-surrogate, he had not been able to resist the shopman's persuasion.
Looking at the tins now, he bitterly reproached himself for his
weakness. Loathsome civilized stuff! He had made up his mind that he
would never eat it, even if he were starving. 'That'll teach them,' he
thought vindictively. It would also teach him.

He counted his money. The little that remained would be enough, he
hoped, to tide him over the winter. By next spring, his garden would be
producing enough to make him independent of the outside world.
Meanwhile, there would always be game. He had seen plenty of rabbits,
and there were water-fowl on the ponds. He set to work at once to make a
bow and arrows.

There were ash trees near the lighthouse and, for arrow shafts, a whole
copse full of beautifully straight hazel saplings. He began by felling a
young ash, cut out six feet of unbranched stem, stripped off the bark
and, paring by paring, shaved away the white wood, as old Mitsima had
taught him, until he had a stave of his own height, stiff at the
thickened centre, lively and quick at the slender tips. The work gave
him an intense pleasure. After those weeks of idleness in London, with
nothing to do, whenever he wanted anything, but to press a switch or
turn a handle, it was pure delight to be doing something that demanded
skill and patience.

He had almost finished whittling the stave into shape, when he realized
with a start that he was singing--_singing_! It was as though, stumbling
upon himself from the outside, he had suddenly caught himself out, taken
himself flagrantly at fault. Guiltily he blushed. After all, it was not
to sing and enjoy himself that he had come here. It was to escape
further contamination by the filth of civilized life; it was to be
purified and made good; it was actively to make amends. He realized to
his dismay that, absorbed in the whittling of his bow, he had forgotten
what he had sworn to himself he would constantly remember--poor Linda,
and his own murderous unkindness to her, and those loathsome twins,
swarming like lice across the mystery of her death, insulting, with
their presence, not merely his own grief and repentance, but the very
gods themselves. He had sworn to remember, he had sworn unceasingly to
make amends. And here was he, sitting happily over his bow-stave,
singing, actually singing....

He went indoors, opened the box of mustard, and put some water to boil
on the fire.

Half an hour later, three Delta-Minus land-workers from one of the
Puttenham Bokanovsky Groups happened to be driving to Elstead and, at
the top of the hill, were aston