rls at peace;
                   Orgy-porgy gives release.

'Orgy-porgy,' the dancers caught up the liturgical refrain, 'Orgy-porgy,
Ford and fun, kiss the girls...' And as they sang, the lights began
slowly to fade--to fade and at the same time to grow warmer, richer,
redder, until at last they were dancing in the crimson twilight of an
Embryo Store. 'Orgy-Porgy...' In their blood-coloured and foetal
darkness the dancers continued for a while to circulate, to beat and
beat out the indefatigable rhythm. 'Orgy-porgy...' Then the circle
wavered, broke, fell in partial disintegration on the ring of couches
which surrounded--circle enclosing circle--the table and its planetary
chairs. 'Orgy-porgy...' Tenderly the deep Voice crooned and cooed; in
the red twilight it was as though some enormous negro dove were hovering
benevolently over the now prone or supine dancers.

****

They were standing on the roof; Big Henry had just sung eleven. The
night was calm and warm.

'Wasn't it wonderful?' said Fifi Bradlaugh. 'Wasn't it simply
wonderful?' She looked at Bernard with an expression of rapture, but of
rapture in which there was no trace of agitation or excitement--for to
be excited is still to be unsatisfied. Hers was the calm ecstasy of
achieved consummation, the peace, not of mere vacant satiety and
nothingness, but of balanced life, of energies at rest and in
equilibrium. A rich and living peace. For the Solidarity Service had
given as well as taken, drawn off only to replenish. She was full, she
was made perfect, she was still more than merely herself. 'Didn't you
think it was wonderful?' she insisted, looking into Bernard's face with
those supernaturally shining eyes.

'Yes, I thought it was wonderful,' he lied and looked away; the sight of
her transfigured face was at once an accusation and an ironical reminder
of his own separateness. He was as miserably isolated now as he had been
when the service began--more isolated by reason of his unreplenished
emptiness, his dead satiety. Separate and unatoned, while the others
were being fused into the Greater Being; alone even in Morgana's
embrace--much more alone, indeed, more hopelessly himself than he had
ever been in his life before. He had emerged from that crimson twilight
into the common electric glare with a self-consciousness intensified to
the pitch of agony. He was utterly miserable, and perhaps (her shining
eyes accused him), perhaps it was his own fault. 'Quite wonderful,' he
repeated; but the only thing he could think of was Morgana's eyebrow.




                               Chapter VI




                                  § 1

Odd, odd, _odd_, was Lenina's verdict on Bernard Marx. So odd, indeed,
that in the course of the succeeding weeks she had wondered more than
once whether she shouldn't change her mind about the New Mexico holiday,
and go instead to the North Pole with Benito Hoover. The trouble was
that she knew the North Pole, had been there with George Edzel only last
summer, and what was more, found it pretty grim. Nothing to do, and the
hotel too hopelessly old-fashioned--no television laid on in the
bedrooms, no scent organ, only the most putrid synthetic music, and not
more than twenty-five Escalator-Squash Courts for over two hundred
guests. No, decidedly she couldn't face the North Pole again. Added to
which, she had only been to America once before. And even then, how
inadequately! A cheap week-end in New York--had it been with
Jean-Jacques Habibullah or Bokanovsky Jones? She couldn't remember.
Anyhow, it was of absolutely no importance. The prospect of flying West
again, and for a whole week, was very inviting. Moreover, for at least
three days of that week they would be in the Savage Reservation. Not
more than half a dozen people in the whole Centre had ever been inside a
Savage Reservation. As an Alpha-Plus psychologist, Bernard was one of
the few men she knew entitled to a permit. For Lenina, the opportunity
was unique. And yet, so unique also was Bernard's oddness, that she had
hesitated to take it, had actually thought of risking the Pole aga