he roaring renewed themselves, faces seemed on the
point of disintegration, tears were streaming. Six more test-tubes of
spermatozoa were upset. My _father!_

Pale, wild-eyed, the Director glared about him in an agony of bewildered
humiliation.

My _father!_ The laughter, which had shown signs of dying away, broke
out again more loudly than ever. He put his hands over his ears and
rushed out of the room.




                               Chapter XI




After the scene in the Fertilizing Room, all upper-caste London was wild
to see this delicious creature who had fallen on his knees before the
Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning--or rather the ex-Director, for
the poor man had resigned immediately afterwards and never set foot
inside the Centre again--had flopped down and called him (the joke was
almost too good to be true!) 'my father.' Linda, on the contrary, cut no
ice; nobody had the smallest desire to see Linda. To say one was a
mother--that was past a joke: it was an obscenity. Moreover, she wasn't
a real savage, had been hatched out of a bottle and conditioned like any
one else: so couldn't have really quaint ideas. Finally--and this was by
far the strongest reason for people's not wanting to see poor
Linda--there was her appearance. Fat; having lost her youth; with bad
teeth, and a blotched complexion, and that figure (Ford!)--you simply
couldn't look at her without feeling sick, yes, positively sick. So the
best people were quite determined _not_ to see Linda. And Linda, for her
part, had no desire to see them. The return to civilization was for her
the return to _soma_, was the possibility of lying in bed and taking
holiday after holiday, without ever having to come back to a headache or
a fit of vomiting, without ever being made to feel as you always felt
after _peyotl_, as though you'd done something so shamefully anti-social
that you could never hold up your head again. _Soma_ played none of
these unpleasant tricks. The holiday it gave was perfect and, if the
morning after was disagreeable, it was so, not intrinsically, but only
by comparison with the joys of the holiday. The remedy was to make the
holiday continuous. Greedily she clamoured for ever larger, ever more
frequent doses. Dr. Shaw at first demurred; then let her have what she
wanted. She took as much as twenty grammes a day.

'Which will finish her off in a month or two,' the doctor confided to
Bernard. 'One day the respiratory centre will be paralysed. No more
breathing. Finished. And a good thing too. If we could rejuvenate, of
course it would be different. But we can't.'

Surprisingly, as every one thought (for on _soma_-holiday Linda was most
conveniently out of the way), John raised objections.

'But aren't you shortening her life by giving her so much?'

'In one sense, yes,' Dr. Shaw admitted. 'But in another we're actually
lengthening it.' The young man stared, uncomprehending. '_Soma_ may make
you lose a few years in time,' the doctor went on. 'But think of the
enormous, immeasurable durations it can give you out of time. Every
_soma_-holiday is a bit of what our ancestors used to call eternity.'

John began to understand. 'Eternity was in our lips and eyes,' he
murmured.

'Eh?'

'Nothing,'

'Of course,' Dr. Shaw went on, 'you can't allow people to go popping off
into eternity if they've got any serious work to do. But as she hasn't
got any serious work...'

'All the same,' John persisted, 'I don't believe it's right.'

The doctor shrugged his shoulders. 'Well, of course, if you prefer to
have her screaming mad all the time...'

In the end John was forced to give in. Linda got her _soma_.
Thenceforward she remained in her little room on the thirty-seventh
floor of Bernard's apartment house, in bed, with the radio and
television always on, and the patchouli tap just dripping, and the
_soma_ tablets within reach of her hand--there she remained; and yet
wasn't there at all, was all the time away, infinitely far away, on
holiday; on holiday in some other world, where the music of the radio
was a labyrinth of sonorous colours, a sliding, pa