nd they aren't civilized. So
there's no point in...'

'Oh!' She gripped his arm. 'Look.'

An almost naked Indian was very slowly climbing down the ladder from the
first-floor terrace of a neighbouring house--rung after rung, with the
tremulous caution of extreme old age. His face was profoundly wrinkled
and black, like a mask of obsidian. The toothless mouth had fallen in.
At the corners of the lips, and on each side of the chin a few long
bristles gleamed almost white against the dark skin. The long unbraided
hair hung down in grey wisps round his face. His body was bent and
emaciated to the bone, almost fleshless. Very slowly he came down,
pausing at each rung before he ventured another step.

'What's the matter with him?' whispered Lenina. Her eyes were wide with
horror and amazement.

'He's old, that's all,' Bernard answered as carelessly as he could. He
too was startled; but he made an effort to seem unmoved.

'Old?' she repeated. 'But the Director's old; lots of people are old;
they're not like that.'

'That's because we don't allow them to be like that. We preserve them
from diseases. We keep their internal secretions artificially balanced
at a youthful equilibrium. We don't permit their magnesium-calcium ratio
to fall below what it was at thirty. We give them transfusions of young
blood. We keep their metabolism permanently stimulated. So, of course,
they don't look like that. Partly,' he added, 'because most of them die
long before they reach this old creature's age. Youth almost unimpaired
till sixty, and then, crack! the end.'

But Lenina was not listening. She was watching the old man. Slowly,
slowly he came down. His feet touched the ground. He turned. In their
deep-sunken orbits his eyes were still extraordinarily bright. They
looked at her for a long moment expressionlessly, without surprise, as
though she had not been there at all. Then slowly, with bent back, the
old man hobbled past them and was gone.

'But it's terrible,' Lenina whispered. 'It's awful. We ought not to have
come here.' She felt in her pocket for her _soma_--only to discover
that, by some unprecedented oversight, she had left the bottle down at
the rest-house. Bernard's pockets were also empty.

Lenina was left to face the horrors of Malpais unaided. They came
crowding in on her thick and fast. The spectacle of two young women
giving the breast to their babies made her blush and turn away her face.
She had never seen anything so indecent in her life. And what made it
worse was that, instead of tactfully ignoring it, Bernard proceeded to
make open comments on this revoltingly viviparous scene. Ashamed, now
that the effects of the _soma_ had worn off, of the weakness he had
displayed that morning in the hotel, he went out of his way to show
himself strong and unorthodox.

'What a wonderfully intimate relationship,' he said, deliberately
outrageous. 'And what an intensity of feeling it must generate! I often
think one may have missed something in not having had a mother. And
perhaps you've missed something in not _being_ a mother, Lenina. Imagine
yourself sitting there with a little baby of your own....'

'Bernard! How can you?' The passage of an old woman with ophthalmia and
a disease of the skin distracted her from her indignation.

'Let's go away,' she begged. 'I don't like it.'

But at this moment their guide came back and, beckoning to them to
follow, led the way down the narrow street between the houses. They
rounded a corner. A dead dog was lying on a rubbish heap; a woman with a
goitre was looking for lice in the hair of a small girl. Their guide
halted at the foot of a ladder, raised his hand perpendicularly, then
darted it horizontally forward. They did what he mutely
commanded--climbed the ladder and walked through the doorway, to which
it gave access, into a long narrow room, rather dark and smelling of
smoke and cooked grease and long-worn, long-unwashed clothes. At the
further end of the room was another doorway, through which came a shaft
of sunlight and the noise, very loud and close, of the drums.

They stepped across the t