was wonderful, wonderful all the same)--they
gave him a reason for hating Popé; and they made his hatred more real;
they even made Popé himself more real.

One day, when he came in from playing, the door of the inner room was
open, and he saw them lying together on the bed, asleep--white Linda and
Popé almost black beside her, with one arm under her shoulders and the
other dark hand on her breast, and one of the plaits of his long hair
lying across her throat, like a black snake trying to strangle her.
Popé's gourd and a cup were standing on the floor near the bed. Linda
was snoring.

His heart seemed to have disappeared and left a hole. He was empty.
Empty, and cold, and rather sick, and giddy. He leaned against the wall
to steady himself. Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous... Like drums,
like the men singing for the corn, like magic, the words repeated and
repeated themselves in his head. From being cold he was suddenly hot.
His cheeks burnt with the rush of blood, the room swam and darkened
before his eyes. He ground his teeth. 'I'll kill him, I'll kill him,
I'll kill him,' he kept saying. And suddenly there were more words.

             When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage
             Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed...

The magic was on his side, the magic explained and gave orders. He
stepped back into the outer room. 'When he is drunk asleep...' The
knife for the meat was lying on the floor near the fireplace. He picked
it up and tiptoed to the door again. 'When he is drunk asleep, drunk
asleep...' He ran across the room and stabbed--oh, the
blood!--stabbed again, as Popé heaved out of his sleep, lifted his hand
to stab once more, but found his wrist caught, held and--oh,
oh!--twisted. He couldn't move, he was trapped, and there were Popé's
small black eyes, very close, staring into his own. He looked away.
There were two cuts on Popé's left shoulder. 'Oh, look at the blood!'
Linda was crying. 'Look at the blood!' She had never been able to bear
the sight of blood. Popé lifted his other hand--to strike him, he
thought. He stiffened to receive the blow. But the hand only took him
under the chin and turned his face, so that he had to look again into
Popé's eyes. For a long time, for hours and hours. And suddenly--he
couldn't help it--he began to cry. Popé burst out laughing. 'Go,' he
said, in the other Indian words. 'Go, my brave Ahaiyuta.' He ran out
into the other room to hide his tears.

****

'You are fifteen,' said old Mitsima, in the Indian words. 'Now I may
teach you to work the clay.'

Squatting by the river, they worked together.

'First of all,' said Mitsima, taking a lump of the wetted clay between
his hands, 'we make a little moon.' The old man squeezed the lump into a
disk, then bent up the edges; the moon became a shallow cup.

Slowly and unskilfully he imitated the old man's delicate gestures.

'A moon, a cup, and now a snake.' Mitsima rolled out another piece of
clay into a long flexible cylinder, hooped it into a circle and pressed
it on to the rim of the cup. 'Then another snake. And another. And
another.' Round by round, Mitsima built up the sides of the pot; it was
narrow, it bulged, it narrowed again towards the neck. Mitsima squeezed
and patted, stroked and scraped; and there at last it stood, in shape
the familiar water-pot of Malpais, but creamy white instead of black,
and still soft to the touch. The crooked parody of Mitsima's, his own
stood beside it. Looking at the two pots, he had to laugh.

'But the next one will be better,' he said, and began to moisten another
piece of clay.

To fashion, to give form, to feel his fingers gaining in skill and
power--this gave him an extraordinary pleasure. 'A, B, C, Vitamin D,' he
sang to himself as he worked, 'The fat's in the liver, the cod's in the
sea.' And Mitsima also sang--a song about killing a bear. They worked
all day, and all day he was filled with an intense, absorbing happiness.

'Next winter,' said old Mitsima, 'I will teach you to make the bow.'

****

He stood for a long time outside the house; and at last the ceremonies
w