 had completed the
first circuit and was half-way through the second when, from among the
dancers, a tall man wearing the mask of a coyote and holding in his hand
a whip of plaited leather, advanced towards him. The boy moved on as
though unaware of the other's existence. The coyote-man raised his whip;
there was a long moment of expectancy, then a swift movement, the
whistle of the lash and its loud flat-sounding impact on the flesh. The
boy's body quivered; but he made no sound, he walked on at the same
slow, steady pace. The coyote struck again, again; and at every blow at
first a gasp and then a deep groan went up from the crowd. The boy
walked on. Twice, thrice, four times round he went. The blood was
streaming. Five times round, six times round. Suddenly Lenina covered
her face with her hands and began to sob. 'Oh, stop them, stop them!'
she implored. But the whip fell and fell inexorably. Seven times round.
Then all at once the boy staggered and, still without a sound, pitched
forward on to his face. Bending over him, the old man touched his back
with a long white feather, held it up for a moment, crimson, for the
people to see, then shook it thrice over the snakes. A few drops fell,
and suddenly the drums broke out again into a panic of hurrying notes;
there was a great shout. The dancers rushed forward, picked up the
snakes and ran out of the square. Men, women, children, all the crowd
ran after them. A minute later the square was empty, only the boy
remained, prone where he had fallen, quite still. Three old women came
out of one of the houses, and with some difficulty lifted him and
carried him in. The eagle and the man on the cross kept guard for a
little while over the empty pueblo; then, as though they had seen
enough, sank slowly down through their hatchways, out of sight, into the
nether world.

Lenina was still sobbing. 'Too awful,' she kept repeating, and all
Bernard's consolations were in vain. 'Too awful! That blood!' She
shuddered. 'Oh, I wish I had my _soma_.'

There was the sound of feet in the inner room.

Lenina did not move, but sat with her face in her hands, unseeing,
apart. Only Bernard turned round.

The dress of the young man who now stepped out on to the terrace was
Indian; but his plaited hair was straw-coloured, his eyes a pale blue,
and his skin a white skin, bronzed.

'Hullo. Good-morrow,' said the stranger, in faultless but peculiar
English. 'You're civilized, aren't you? You come from the Other Place,
outside the Reservation?'

'Who on earth...?' Bernard began in astonishment.

The young man sighed and shook his head. 'A most unhappy gentleman.'
And, pointing to the bloodstains in the centre of the square, 'Do you
see that damned spot?' he asked in a voice that trembled with emotion.

'A gramme is better than a damn,' said Lenina mechanically from behind
her hands. 'I wish I had my _soma_!'

'_I_ ought to have been there.' The young man went on. 'Why wouldn't
they let me be the sacrifice? I'd have gone round ten times--twelve,
fifteen. Palowhtiwa only got as far as seven. They could have had twice
as much blood from me. The multitudinous seas incarnadine.' He flung out
his arms in a lavish gesture; then, despairingly, let them fall again.
'But they wouldn't let me. They disliked me for my complexion. It's
always been like that. Always.' Tears stood in the young man's eyes; he
was ashamed and turned away.

Astonishment made Lenina forget the deprivation of _soma_. She uncovered
her face and, for the first time, looked at the stranger. 'Do you mean
to say that you _wanted_ to be hit with that whip?'

Still averted from her, the young man made a sign of affirmation. 'For
the sake of the pueblo--to make the rain come and the corn grow. And to
please Pookong and Jesus. And then to show that I can bear pain without
crying out. Yes,' and his voice suddenly took on a new resonance, he
turned with a proud squaring of the shoulders, a proud, defiant lifting
of the chin, 'to show that I'm a man... Oh!' He gave a gasp and was
silent, gaping. He had seen, for the first time in his life, the face 