p with recently,' he said almost tearfully--and the uprush of his
self-pity was like a fountain suddenly released. 'If you only knew!'

Helmholtz Watson listened with a certain sense of discomfort. 'Poor
little Bernard!' he said to himself. But at the same time he felt rather
ashamed for his friend. He wished Bernard would show a little more
pride.




                               Chapter V




                                  § 1

By eight o'clock the light was failing. The loud-speakers in the tower
of the Stoke Poges Club House began, in a more than human tenor, to
announce the closing of the courses. Lenina and Henry abandoned their
game and walked back towards the Club. From the grounds of the Internal
and External Secretion Trust came the lowing of those thousands of
cattle which provided, with their hormones and their milk, the raw
materials for the great factory at Farnham Royal.

An incessant buzzing of helicopters filled the twilight. Every two and a
half minutes a bell and the screech of whistles announced the departure
of one of the light monorail trains which carried the lower-caste
golfers back from their separate course to the metropolis.

Lenina and Henry climbed into their machine and started off. At eight
hundred feet Henry slowed down the helicopter screws, and they hung for
a minute or two poised above the fading landscape. The forest of Burnham
Beeches stretched like a great pool of darkness towards the bright shore
of the western sky. Crimson at the horizon, the last of the sunset
faded, through orange, upwards into yellow and a pale watery green.
Northwards, beyond and above the trees, the Internal and External
Secretions factory glared with a fierce electric brilliance from every
window of its twenty stories. Beneath them lay the buildings of the Golf
Club--the huge lower-caste barracks and, on the other side of a dividing
wall, the smaller houses reserved for Alpha and Beta members. The
approaches to the monorail station were black with the ant-like
pullulation of lower-caste activity. From under the glass vault a
lighted train shot out into the open. Following its south-easterly
course across the dark plain their eyes were drawn to the majestic
buildings of the Slough Crematorium. For the safety of night-flying
planes, its four tall chimneys were flood-lighted and tipped with
crimson danger signals. It was a landmark.

'Why do the smoke-stacks have those things like balconies round them?'
enquired Lenina.

'Phosphorus recovery,' explained Henry telegraphically. 'On their way up
the chimney the gases go through four separate treatments. P_{2}O_{5}
used to go right out of circulation every time they cremated some one.
Now they recover over ninety-eight per cent. of it. More than a kilo and
a half per adult corpse. Which makes the best part of four hundred tons
of phosphorus every year from England alone.' Henry spoke with a happy
pride, rejoicing whole-heartedly in the achievement, as though it had
been his own. 'Fine to think we can go on being socially useful even
after we're dead. Making plants grow.'

Lenina, meanwhile, had turned her eyes away and was looking
perpendicularly downwards at the monorail station. 'Fine,' she agreed.
'But queer that Alphas and Betas won't make any more plants grow than
those nasty little Gammas and Deltas and Epsilons down there.'

'All men are physico-chemically equal,' said Henry sententiously.
'Besides, even Epsilons perform indispensable services.'

'Even an Epsilon...' Lenina suddenly remembered an occasion when, as
a little girl at school, she had woken up in the middle of the night and
become aware, for the first time, of the whispering that had haunted all
her sleeps. She saw again the beam of moonlight, the row of small white
beds; heard once more the soft, soft voice that said (the words were
there, unforgotten, unforgettable after so many night-long repetitions):
'Every one works for every one else. We can't do without any one. Even
Epsilons are useful. We couldn't do without Epsilons. Every one works
for every one else. We can't do without any one..