hreshold and found themselves on a wide
terrace. Below them, shut in by the tall houses, was the village square,
crowded with Indians. Bright blankets, and feathers in black hair, and
the glint of turquoise, and dark skins shining with heat. Lenina put her
handkerchief to her nose again. In the open space at the centre of the
square were two circular platforms of masonry and trampled clay--the
roofs, it was evident, of underground chambers; for in the centre of
each platform was an open hatchway, with a ladder emerging from the
lower darkness. A sound of subterranean flute-playing came up and was
almost lost in the steady remorseless persistence of the drums.

Lenina liked the drums. Shutting her eyes she abandoned herself to their
soft repeated thunder, allowed it to invade her consciousness more and
more completely, till at last there was nothing left in the world but
that one deep pulse of sound. It reminded her reassuringly of the
synthetic noises made at Solidarity Services and Ford's Day
celebrations. 'Orgy-porgy,' she whispered to herself. These drums beat
out just the same rhythms.

There was a sudden startling burst of singing--hundreds of male voices
crying out fiercely in harsh metallic unison. A few long notes and
silence, the thunderous silence of the drums; then shrill, in a neighing
treble, the women's answer. Then again the drums; and once more the
men's deep savage affirmation of their manhood.

Queer--yes. The place was queer, so was the music, so were the clothes
and the goitres and the skin diseases and the old people. But the
performance itself--there seemed to be nothing specially queer about
that.

'It reminds me of a lower-caste Community Sing,' she told Bernard.

But a little later it was reminding her a good deal less of that
innocuous function. For suddenly there had swarmed up from those round
chambers underground a ghastly troop of monsters. Hideously masked or
painted out of all semblance of humanity, they had tramped out a strange
limping dance round the square; round and again round, singing as they
went, round and round--each time a little faster; and the drums had
changed and quickened their rhythm, so that it became like the pulsing
of fever in the ears; and the crowd had begun to sing with the dancers,
louder and louder; and first one woman had shrieked, and then another
and another, as though they were being killed; and then suddenly the
leader of the dancers broke out of the line, ran to a big wooden chest
which was standing at one end of the square, raised the lid and pulled
out a pair of black snakes. A great yell went up from the crowd, and all
the other dancers ran towards him with outstretched hands. He tossed the
snakes to the first-comers, then dipped back into the chest for more.
More and more, black snakes and brown and mottled--he flung them out.
And then the dance began again on a different rhythm. Round and round
they went with their snakes, snakily, with a soft undulating movement at
the knees and hips. Round and round. Then the leader gave a signal, and
one after another, all the snakes were flung down in the middle of the
square; an old man came up from underground and sprinkled them with corn
meal, and from the other hatchway came a woman and sprinkled them with
water from a black jar. Then the old man lifted his hand and,
startlingly, terrifyingly, there was absolute silence. The drums stopped
beating, life seemed to have come to an end. The old man pointed towards
the two hatchways that gave entrance to the lower world. And slowly,
raised by invisible hands from below, there emerged from the one a
painted image of an eagle, from the other that of a man, naked, and
nailed to a cross. They hung there, seemingly self-sustained, as though
watching. The old man clapped his hands. Naked but for a white cotton
breech-cloth, a boy of about eighteen stepped out of the crowd and stood
before him, his hands crossed over his chest, his head bowed. The old
man made the sign of the cross over him and turned away. Slowly, the boy
began to walk round the writhing heap of snakes. He