e got
angry too. 'How should I know how to do their beastly weaving?' she
said. 'Beastly savages.' He asked her what savages were. When they got
back to their house, Popé was waiting at the door, and he came in with
them. He had a big gourd full of stuff that looked like water; only it
wasn't water, but something with a bad smell that burnt your mouth and
made you cough. Linda drank some and Popé drank some, and then Linda
laughed a lot and talked very loud; and then she and Popé went into the
other room. When Popé went away, he went into the room. Linda was in bed
and so fast asleep that he couldn't wake her.

Popé used to come often. He said the stuff in the gourd was called
_mescal_; but Linda said it ought to be called _soma_; only it made you
feel ill afterwards. He hated Popé. He hated them all--all the men who
came to see Linda. One afternoon, when he had been playing with the
other children--it was cold, he remembered, and there was snow on the
mountains--he came back to the house and heard angry voices in the
bedroom. They were women's voices, and they said words he didn't
understand; but he knew they were dreadful words. Then suddenly, crash!
something was upset; he heard people moving about quickly, and there was
another crash and then a noise like hitting a mule, only not so bony;
then Linda screamed. 'Oh, don't, don't, don't!' she said. He ran in.
There were three women in dark blankets. Linda was on the bed. One of
the women was holding her wrists. Another was lying across her legs, so
that she couldn't kick. The third was hitting her with a whip. Once,
twice, three times; and each time Linda screamed. Crying, he tugged at
the fringe of the woman's blanket. 'Please, please.' With her free hand
she held him away. The whip came down again, and again Linda screamed.
He caught hold of the woman's enormous brown hand between his own and
bit it with all his might. She cried out, wrenched her hand free, and
gave him such a push that he fell down. While he was lying on the ground
she hit him three times with the whip. It hurt more than anything he had
ever felt--like fire. The whip whistled again, fell. But this time it
was Linda who screamed.

'But why did they want to hurt you, Linda?' he asked that night. He was
crying, because the red marks of the whip on his back still hurt so
terribly. But he was also crying because people were so beastly and
unfair, and because he was only a little boy and couldn't do anything
against them. Linda was crying too. She was grown up, but she wasn't big
enough to fight against three of them. It wasn't fair for her either.
'Why did they want to hurt you, Linda?'

'I don't know. How should I know?' It was difficult to hear what she
said, because she was lying on her stomach and her face was in the
pillow. 'They say those men are _their_ men,' she went on; and she did
not seem to be talking to him at all; she seemed to be talking with some
one inside herself. A long talk which he didn't understand; and in the
end she started crying louder than ever.

'Oh, don't cry, Linda. Don't cry.'

He pressed himself against her. He put his arm round her neck. Linda
cried out. 'Oh, be careful. My shoulder! Oh!' and she pushed him away,
hard. His head banged against the wall. 'Little idiot!' she shouted; and
then, suddenly, she began to slap him. Slap, slap...

'Linda,' he cried out. 'Oh, mother, don't!'

'I'm not your mother. I won't be your mother.'

'But, Linda... Oh!' She slapped him on the cheek.

'Turned into a savage,' she shouted. 'Having young ones like an
animal.... If it hadn't been for you, I might have gone to the
Inspector, I might have got away. But not with a baby. That would have
been too shameful.'

He saw that she was going to hit him again, and lifted his arm to guard
his face. 'Oh don't, Linda, please don't.'

'Little beast!' She pulled down his arm; his face was uncovered.

'Don't, Linda.' He shut his eyes, expecting the blow.

But she didn't hit him. After a little time, he opened his eyes again
and saw that she was looking at him. He tried to smile at her. Suddenly
she put