_soma_ to be had.
Only a drink of _mescal_ every now and then, when Popé used to bring it.
Popé is a boy I used to know. But it makes you feel so bad afterwards,
the _mescal_ does, and you're sick with the _peyotl_; besides, it always
made that awful feeling of being ashamed much worse the next day. And I
_was_ so ashamed. Just think of it: me, a Beta--having a baby, put
yourself in my place.' (The mere suggestion made Lenina shudder.)
'Though it wasn't my fault, I swear; because I still don't know how it
happened, seeing that I did all the Malthusian drill--you know, by
numbers, One, two, three, four, always, I swear it; but all the same it
happened; and of course there wasn't anything like an Abortion Centre
here. Is it still down in Chelsea, by the way?' she asked. Lenina
nodded. 'And still flood-lighted on Tuesdays and Fridays?' Lenina nodded
again. 'That lovely pink glass tower!' Poor Linda lifted her face and
with closed eyes ecstatically contemplated the bright remembered image.
'And the river at night,' she whispered. Great tears oozed slowly out
from between her tight-shut eyelids. 'And flying back in the evening
from Stoke Poges. And then a hot bath and vibro-vacuum massage... But
there.' She drew a deep breath, shook her head, opened her eyes again,
sniffed once or twice, then blew her nose on her fingers and wiped them
on the skirt of her tunic. 'Oh, I'm so sorry,' she said in response to
Lenina's involuntary grimace of disgust. 'I oughtn't to have done that.
I'm sorry. But what _are_ you to do when there aren't any handkerchiefs?
I remember how it used to upset me, all that dirt, and nothing being
aseptic. I had an awful cut on my head when they first brought me here.
You can't imagine what they used to put on it. Filth, just filth.
"Civilization is Sterilization," I used to say to them. And
"Streptocock-Gee to Banbury-T, to see a fine bathroom and W.C." as
though they were children. But of course they didn't understand. How
should they? And in the end I suppose I got used to it. And anyhow, how
_can_ you keep things clean when there isn't hot water laid on? And look
at these clothes. This beastly wool isn't like acetate. It lasts and
lasts. And you're supposed to mend it if it gets torn. But I'm a Beta; I
worked in the Fertilizing Room; nobody ever taught me to do anything
like that. It wasn't my business. Besides, it never used to be right to
mend clothes. Throw them away when they've got holes in them and buy
new. "The more stitches, the less riches." Isn't that right? Mending's
anti-social. But it's all different here. It's like living with
lunatics. Everything they do is mad.' She looked round; saw John and
Bernard had left them and were walking up and down in the dust and
garbage outside the house; but, none the less confidentially lowering
her voice, and leaning, while Lenina stiffened and shrank, so close that
the blown reek of embryo-poison stirred the hair on her cheek. 'For
instance,' she hoarsely whispered, 'take the way they have one another
here. Mad, I tell you, absolutely mad. Everybody belongs to every one
else--don't they? don't they?' she insisted, tugging at Lenina's sleeve.
Lenina nodded her averted head, let out the breath she had been holding
and managed to draw another one, relatively untainted. 'Well, here,' the
other went on, 'nobody's supposed to belong to more than one person. And
if you have people in the ordinary way, the others think you're wicked
and anti-social. They hate and despise you. Once a lot of women came and
made a scene because their men came to see me. Well, why not? And then
they rushed at me... No, it was too awful. I can't tell you about
it.' Linda covered her face with her hands and shuddered. 'They're so
hateful, the women here. Mad, mad and cruel. And of course they don't
know anything about Malthusian drill, or bottles, or decanting, or
anything of that sort. So they're having children all the time--like
dogs. It's too revolting. And to think that I... Oh, Ford, Ford,
Ford! And yet John _was_ a great comfort to me. I don't know what I
should have done withou