and blushingly
had to admit that he had been playing neither. Morgana stared at him
with astonishment. There was an awkward silence.

Then pointedly she turned away and addressed herself to the more
sporting man on her left.

'A good beginning for a Solidarity Service,' thought Bernard miserably,
and foresaw for himself yet another failure to achieve atonement. If
only he had given himself time to look round instead of scuttling for
the nearest chair! He could have sat between Fifi Bradlaugh and Joanna
Diesel. Instead of which he had gone and blindly planted himself next to
Morgana. _Morgana!_ Ford! Those black eyebrows of hers--that eyebrow,
rather--for they met above the nose. Ford! And on his right was Clara
Deterding. True, Clara's eyebrows didn't meet. But she was really _too_
pneumatic. Whereas Fifi and Joanna were absolutely right. Plump, blonde,
not too large... And it was that great lout, Tom Kawaguchi, who now
took the seat between them.

The last arrival was Sarojini Engels.

'You're late,' said the President of the Group severely. 'Don't let it
happen again.'

Sarojini apologized and slid into her place between Jim Bokanovsky and
Herbert Bakunin. The group was now complete, the solidarity circle
perfect and without flaw. Man, woman, man, in a ring of endless
alternation round the table. Twelve of them ready to be made one,
waiting to come together, to be fused, to lose their twelve separate
identities in a larger being.

The President stood up, made the sign of the T and, switching on the
synthetic music, let loose the soft indefatigable beating of drums and a
choir of instruments--near-wind and super-string--that plangently
repeated and repeated the brief and unescapably haunting melody of the
first Solidarity Hymn. Again, again--and it was not the ear that heard
the pulsing rhythm, it was the midriff; the wail and clang of those
recurring harmonies haunted, not the mind, but the yearning bowels of
compassion.

The President made another sign of the T and sat down. The service had
begun. The dedicated _soma_ tablets were placed in the centre of the
dinner table. The loving cup of strawberry ice-cream _soma_ was passed
from hand to hand and, with the formula, 'I drink to my annihilation,'
twelve times quaffed. Then to the accompaniment of the synthetic
orchestra the First Solidarity Hymn was sung.

                 Ford, we are twelve; oh, make us one,
                   Like drops within the Social River;
                 Oh, make us now together run
                   As swiftly as thy shining Flivver.

Twelve yearning stanzas. And then the loving cup was passed a second
time. 'I drink to the Greater Being' was now the formula. All drank.
Tirelessly the music played. The drums beat. The crying and clashing of
the harmonies were an obsession in the melted bowels. The Second
Solidarity Hymn was sung.

                  Come, Greater Being, Social Friend,
                    Annihilating Twelve-in-One!
                  We long to die, for when we end,
                    Our larger life has but begun.

Again twelve stanzas. By this time the _soma_ had begun to work. Eyes
shone, cheeks were flushed, the inner light of universal benevolence
broke out on every face in happy, friendly smiles. Even Bernard felt
himself a little melted. When Morgana Rothschild turned and beamed at
him, he did his best to beam back. But the eyebrow, that black
two-in-one--alas, it was still there; he couldn't ignore it, couldn't,
however hard he tried. The melting hadn't gone far enough. Perhaps if he
had been sitting between Fifi and Joanna... For the third time the
loving cup went round. 'I drink to the imminence of His Coming,' said
Morgana Rothschild, whose turn it happened to be to initiate the
circular rite. Her tone was loud, exultant. She drank and passed the cup
to Bernard. 'I drink to the imminence of His Coming,' he repeated, with
a sincere attempt to feel that the coming was imminent; but the eyebrow
continued to haunt him, and the Coming, so far as he was concerned, was
horribly remote. He drank and handed the cup to Cl