e getting something on false pretences.
Because, of course, the first thing they all want to know is what it's
like to make love to a Savage. And I have to say I don't know.' She
shook her head. 'Most of the men don't believe me, of course. But it's
true. I wish it weren't,' she added sadly and sighed. 'He's terribly
good-looking; don't you think so?'

'But doesn't he like you?' asked Fanny.

'Sometimes I think he does and sometimes I think he doesn't. He always
does his best to avoid me; goes out of the room when I come in; won't
touch me; won't even look at me. But sometimes if I turn round suddenly,
I catch him staring; and then--well, you know how men look when they
like you.'

Yes, Fanny knew.

'I can't make it out,' said Lenina.

She couldn't make it out; and not only was bewildered; was also rather
upset.

'Because, you see, Fanny, _I_ like him.'

Liked him more and more. Well, now there'd be a real chance, she
thought, as she scented herself after her bath. Dab, dab, dab--a real
chance. Her high spirits overflowed in song.

                    'Hug me till you drug me, honey;
                      Kiss me till I'm in a coma:
                    Hug me, honey, snuggly bunny;
                      Love's as good as _soma_.'

****

The scent organ was playing a delightfully refreshing Herbal
Capriccio--rippling arpeggios of thyme and lavender, of rosemary, basil,
myrtle, tarragon; a series of daring modulations through the spice keys
into ambergris; and a slow return through sandalwood, camphor, cedar and
new-mown hay (with occasional subtle touches of discord--a whiff of
kidney pudding, the faintest suspicion of pig's dung) back to the simple
aromatics with which the piece began. The final blast of thyme died
away; there was a round of applause; the lights went up. In the
synthetic music machine the sound-track roll began to unwind. It was a
trio for hyper-violin, super-'cello and oboe-surrogate that now filled
the air with its agreeable languor. Thirty or forty bars--and then,
against this instrumental background, a much more than human voice began
to warble; now throaty, now from the head, now hollow as a flute, now
charged with yearning harmonics, it effortlessly passed from Gaspard
Forster's low record on the very frontiers of musical tone to a trilled
bat-note high above the highest C to which (in 1770, at the Ducal opera
of Parma, and to the astonishment of Mozart) Lucrezia Ajugari, alone of
all the singers in history, once piercingly gave utterance.

Sunk in their pneumatic stalls, Lenina and the Savage sniffed and
listened. It was now the turn also for eyes and skin.

The house lights went down; fiery letters stood out solid and as though
self-supported in the darkness. =Three Weeks in a Helicopter. An
All-Super-Singing, Synthetic-Talking, Coloured, Stereoscopic Feely. With
Synchronized Scent-Organ Accompaniment.=

'Take hold of those metal knobs on the arms of your chair,' whispered
Lenina. 'Otherwise you won't get any of the feely effects.'

The Savage did as he was told.

Those fiery letters, meanwhile, had disappeared; there were ten seconds
of complete darkness; then suddenly, dazzling and incomparably more
solid-looking than they would have seemed in actual flesh and blood, far
more real than reality, there stood the stereoscopic images, locked in
one another's arms, of a gigantic negro and a golden-haired young
brachycephalic Beta-Plus female.

The Savage started. That sensation on his lips! He lifted a hand to his
mouth; the titillation ceased; let his hand fall back on the metal knob;
it began again. The scent organ, meanwhile, breathed pure musk.
Expiringly, a sound-track super-dove cooed 'Oo-oh'; and vibrating only
thirty-two times a second, a deeper than African bass made answer:
'Aa-aah.' 'Ooh-ah! Ooh-ah!' the stereoscopic lips came together again,
and once more the facial erogenous zones of the six thousand spectators
in the Alhambra tingled with almost intolerable galvanic pleasure.
'Ooh...'

The plot of the film was extremely simple. A few minutes after the first
Ooh's and Aah's (a duet havi