ter, making his tone very
professional.

'Oh, the usual typhoid and sleeping sickness.'

'Tropical workers start being inoculated at metre 150,' Mr. Foster
explained to the students. 'The embryos still have gills. We immunize
the fish against the future man's diseases.' Then, turning back to
Lenina, 'Ten to five on the roof this afternoon,' he said, 'as usual.'

'Charming,' said the Director once more, and, with a final pat, moved
away after the others.

On Rack 10 rows of next generation's chemical workers were being trained
in the toleration of lead, caustic soda, tar, chlorine. The first of a
batch of two hundred and fifty embryonic rocket-plane engineers was just
passing the eleven hundredth metre mark on Rack 3. A special mechanism
kept their containers in constant rotation. 'To improve their sense of
balance,' Mr. Foster explained. 'Doing repairs on the outside of a
rocket in mid air is a ticklish job. We slacken off the circulation when
they're right way up, so that they're half starved, and double the flow
of surrogate when they're upside down. They learn to associate
topsy-turvydom with well-being; in fact, they're only truly happy when
they're standing on their heads.'

'And now,' Mr. Foster went on, 'I'd like to show you some very
interesting conditioning for Alpha-Plus Intellectuals. We have a big
batch of them on Rack 5. First Gallery level,' he called to two boys who
had started to go down to the ground floor.

'They're round about metre 900,' he explained. 'You can't really do any
useful intellectual conditioning till the foetuses have lost their tails.
Follow me.'

But the Director had looked at his watch. 'Ten to three,' he said. 'No
time for the intellectual embryos, I'm afraid. We must go up to the
Nurseries before the children have finished their afternoon sleep.'

Mr. Foster was disappointed. 'At least one glance at the Decanting
Room,' he pleaded.

'Very well, then.' The Director smiled indulgently. 'Just one glance.'




                               Chapter II




Mr. Foster was left in the Decanting Room. The D.H.C. and his students
stepped into the nearest lift and were carried up to the fifth floor.

=Infant Nurseries. Neo-Pavlovian Conditioning Rooms=,
announced the notice board.

The Director opened a door. They were in a large bare room, very bright
and sunny; for the whole of the southern wall was a single window. Half
a dozen nurses, trousered and jacketed in the regulation white
viscose-linen uniform, their hair aseptically hidden under white caps,
were engaged in setting out bowls of roses in a long row across the
floor. Big bowls, packed tight with blossom. Thousands of petals,
ripe-blown and silkily smooth, like the cheeks of innumerable little
cherubs, but of cherubs, in that bright light, not exclusively pink and
Aryan, but also luminously Chinese, also Mexican, also apoplectic with
too much blowing of celestial trumpets, also pale as death, pale with
the posthumous whiteness of marble.

The nurses stiffened to attention as the D.H.C. came in.

'Set out the books,' he said curtly.

In silence the nurses obeyed his command. Between the rose bowls the
books were duly set out--a row of nursery quartos opened invitingly each
at some gaily coloured image of beast or fish or bird.

'Now bring in the children.'

They hurried out of the room and returned in a minute or two, each
pushing a kind of tall dumb-waiter laden, on all its four wire-netted
shelves, with eight-month-old babies, all exactly alike (a Bokanovsky
Group, it was evident) and all (since their caste was Delta) dressed in
khaki.

'Put them down on the floor.'

The infants were unloaded.

'Now turn them so that they can see the flowers and books.'

Turned, the babies at once fell silent, then began to crawl towards
those clusters of sleek colours, those shapes so gay and brilliant on
the white pages. As they approached, the sun came out of a momentary
eclipse behind a cloud. The roses flamed up as though with a sudden
passion from within; a new and profound significance seemed to suffuse
the shining pages of the books. From th