d cocaine.'

****

'And what makes it worse, she thinks of herself as meat.'

****

'Two thousand pharmacologists and bio-chemists were subsidized in A.F.
178.'

****

'He does look glum,' said the Assistant Predestinator, pointing at
Bernard Marx.

****

'Six years later it was being produced commercially. The perfect drug.'

****

'Let's bait him.'

****

'Euphoric, narcotic, pleasantly hallucinant.'

****

'Glum, Marx, glum.' The clap on the shoulder made him start, look up. It
was that brute Henry Foster. 'What you need is a gramme of _soma_.'

****

'All the advantages of Christianity and alcohol; none of their defects.'

****

'Ford, I should like to kill him!' But all he did was to say, 'No, thank
you,' and fend off the proffered tube of tablets.

****

'Take a holiday from reality whenever you like, and come back without so
much as a headache or a mythology.'

****

'Take it,' insisted Henry Foster, 'take it.'

****

'Stability was practically assured.'

****

'One cubic centimetre cures ten gloomy sentiments,' said the Assistant
Predestinator, citing a piece of homely hypnopædic wisdom.

****

'It only remained to conquer old age.'

****

'Damn you, damn you!' shouted Bernard Marx.

****

'Hoity-toity.'

****

'Gonadal hormones, transfusion of young blood, magnesium salts...'

****

'And do remember that a gramme is better than a damn.' They went out,
laughing.

****

'All the physiological stigmata of old age have been abolished. And
along with them, of course...'

****

'Don't forget to ask him about that Malthusian belt,' said Fanny.

****

'Along with them all the old man's mental peculiarities. Characters
remain constant throughout a whole lifetime.'

****

'...two rounds of Obstacle Golf to get through before dark. I must
fly.'

****

'Work, play--at sixty our powers and tastes are what they were at
seventeen. Old men in the bad old days used to renounce, retire, take to
religion, spend their time reading, thinking--_thinking!_'

****

'Idiots, swine!' Bernard Marx was saying to himself, as he walked down
the corridor to the lift.

****

'Now--such is progress--the old men work, the old men copulate, the old
men have no time, no leisure from pleasure, not a moment to sit down and
think--or if ever by some unlucky chance such a crevice of time should
yawn in the solid substance of their distractions, there is always
_soma_, delicious _soma_, half a gramme for a half-holiday, a gramme for
a week-end, two grammes for a trip to the gorgeous East, three for a
dark eternity on the moon; returning whence they find themselves on the
other side of the crevice, safe on the solid ground of daily labour and
distraction, scampering from feely to feely, from girl to pneumatic
girl, from Electro-magnetic Golf Course to...'

****

'Go away, little girl,' shouted the D.H.C. angrily. 'Go away, little
boy! Can't you see that his fordship's busy? Go and do your erotic play
somewhere else.'

****

'Poor little children!' said the Controller.

****

Slowly, majestically, with a faint humming of machinery, the Conveyors
moved forward, thirty-three centimetres an hour. In the red darkness
glinted innumerable rubies.




                               Chapter IV




                                  § 1

The lift was crowded with men from the Alpha Changing Rooms, and
Lenina's entry was greeted by many friendly nods and smiles. She was a
popular girl and, at one time or another, had spent a night with almost
all of them.

They were dear boys, she thought, as she returned their salutations.
Charming boys! Still, she did wish that George Edzel's ears weren't
quite so big (perhaps he'd been given just a spot too much parathyroid
at metre 328?). And looking at Benito Hoover, she couldn't help
remembering that he was really _too_ hairy when he took his clothes off.

Turning, with eyes a little saddened by the recollection of Benito's
curly blackness, she saw in a corner the small thin body, the melancholy
face of Bernard Marx.

'Bernard!' she stepped up to him. 'I was looking for you.' Her voice
rang clear above the hum of the mounting