 moment. Only just eighteen months old. Over
twelve thousand seven hundred children already, either decanted or in
embryo. And still going strong. We'll beat them yet.'

'That's the spirit I like!' cried the Director, and clapped Mr. Foster
on the shoulder. 'Come along with us and give these boys the benefit of
your expert knowledge.'

Mr. Foster smiled modestly. 'With pleasure.' They went.

In the Bottling Room all was harmonious bustle and ordered activity.
Flaps of fresh sow's peritoneum ready cut to the proper size came
shooting up in little lifts from the Organ Store in the sub-basement.
Whizz and then, click! the lift-hatches flew open; the Bottle-Liner had
only to reach out a hand, take the flap, insert, smooth-down, and before
the lined bottle had had time to travel out of reach along the endless
band, whizz, click! another flap of peritoneum had shot up from the
depths, ready to be slipped into yet another bottle, the next of that
slow interminable procession on the band.

Next to the Liners stood the Matriculators. The procession advanced; one
by one the eggs were transferred from their test-tubes to the larger
containers; deftly the peritoneal lining was slit, the morula dropped
into place, the saline solution poured in... and already the bottle
had passed, and it was the turn of the labellers. Heredity, date of
fertilization, membership of Bokanovsky Group--details were transferred
from test-tube to bottle. No longer anonymous, but named, identified,
the procession marched slowly on; on through an opening in the wall,
slowly on into the Social Predestination Room.

'Eighty-eight cubic metres of card-index,' said Mr. Foster with relish,
as they entered.

'Containing _all_ the relevant information,' added the Director.

'Brought up to date every morning.'

'And co-ordinated every afternoon.'

'On the basis of which they make their calculations.'

'So many individuals, of such and such quality,' said Mr. Foster.

'Distributed in such and such quantities.'

'The optimum Decanting Rate at any given moment.'

'Unforeseen wastages promptly made good.'

'Promptly,' repeated Mr. Foster. 'If you knew the amount of overtime I
had to put in after the last Japanese earthquake!' He laughed
good-humouredly and shook his head.

'The Predestinators send in their figures to the Fertilizers.'

'Who give them the embryos they ask for.'

'And the bottles come in here to be predestinated in detail.'

'After which they are sent down to the Embryo Store.'

'Where we now proceed ourselves.'

And opening a door Mr. Foster led the way down a staircase into the
basement.

The temperature was still tropical. They descended into a thickening
twilight. Two doors and a passage with a double turn ensured the cellar
against any possible infiltration of the day.

'Embryos are like photograph film,' said Mr. Foster waggishly, as he
pushed open the second door. 'They can only stand red light.'

And in effect the sultry darkness into which the students now followed
him was visible and crimson, like the darkness of closed eyes on a
summer's afternoon. The bulging flanks of row on receding row and tier
above tier of bottles glinted with innumerable rubies, and among the
rubies moved the dim red spectres of men and women with purple eyes and
all the symptoms of lupus. The hum and rattle of machinery faintly
stirred the air.

'Give them a few figures, Mr. Foster,' said the Director, who was tired
of talking.

Mr. Foster was only too happy to give them a few figures.

Two hundred and twenty metres long, two hundred wide, ten high. He
pointed upwards. Like chickens drinking, the students lifted their eyes
towards the distant ceiling.

Three tiers of racks: ground-floor level, first gallery, second gallery.

The spidery steelwork of gallery above gallery faded away in all
directions into the dark. Near them three red ghosts were busily
unloading demi-johns from a moving staircase.

The escalator from the Social Predestination Room.

Each bottle could be placed on one of fifteen racks, each rack, though
you couldn't see it, was a conveyor travelling at t