wly-unbottled
babes uttered their first yell of horror and amazement.

The dynamos purred in the sub-basement, the lifts rushed up and down. On
all the eleven floors of Nurseries it was feeding time. From eighteen
hundred bottles eighteen hundred carefully labelled infants were
simultaneously sucking down their pint of pasteurized external
secretion.

Above them, in ten successive layers of dormitory, the little boys and
girls who were still young enough to need an afternoon sleep were as
busy as every one else, though they did not know it, listening
unconsciously to hypnopædic lessons in hygiene and sociability, in
class-consciousness and the toddler's love-life. Above these again were
the playrooms where, the weather having turned to rain, nine hundred
older children were amusing themselves with bricks and clay modelling,
hunt-the-zipper, and erotic play.

Buzz, buzz! the hive was humming, busily, joyfully. Blithe was the
singing of the young girls over their test-tubes, the Predestinators
whistled as they worked, and in the Decanting Room what glorious jokes
were cracked above the empty bottles! But the Director's face, as he
entered the Fertilizing Room with Henry Foster, was grave, wooden with
severity.

'A public example,' he was saying. 'In this room, because it contains
more high-caste workers than any other in the Centre. I have told him to
meet me here at half-past two.'

'He does his work very well,' put in Henry, with hypocritical
generosity.

'I know. But that's all the more reason for severity. His intellectual
eminence carries with it corresponding moral responsibilities. The
greater a man's talents, the greater his power to lead astray. It is
better that one should suffer than that many should be corrupted.
Consider the matter dispassionately, Mr. Foster, and you will see that
no offence is so heinous as unorthodoxy of behaviour. Murder kills only
the individual--and, after all, what is an individual?' With a sweeping
gesture he indicated the rows of microscopes, the test-tubes, the
incubators. 'We can make a new one with the greatest ease--as many as we
like. Unorthodoxy threatens more than the life of a mere individual; it
strikes at Society itself. Yes, at Society itself,' he repeated. 'Ah,
but here he comes.'

Bernard had entered the room and was advancing between the rows of
fertilizers towards them. A veneer of jaunty self-confidence thinly
concealed his nervousness. The voice in which he said, 'Good-morning,
Director,' was absurdly too loud; that in which, correcting his mistake,
he said, 'You asked me to come and speak to you here,' ridiculously
soft, a squeak.

'Yes, Mr. Marx,' said the Director portentously. 'I did ask you to come
to me here. You returned from your holiday last night, I understand.'

'Yes,' Bernard answered.

'Yes-s,' repeated the Director, lingering, a serpent, on the 's.' Then,
suddenly raising his voice, 'Ladies and gentlemen,' he trumpeted,
'ladies and gentlemen.'

The singing of the girls over their test-tubes, the preoccupied
whistling of the Microscopists, suddenly ceased. There was a profound
silence; every one looked round.

'Ladies and gentlemen,' the Director repeated once more, 'excuse me for
thus interrupting your labours. A painful duty constrains me. The
security and stability of Society are in danger. Yes, in danger, ladies
and gentlemen. This man,' he pointed accusingly at Bernard, 'this man
who stands before you here, this Alpha-Plus to whom so much has been
given, and from whom, in consequence, so much must be expected, this
colleague of yours--or should I anticipate and say this
ex-colleague?--has grossly betrayed the trust imposed in him. By his
heretical views on sport and _soma_, by the scandalous unorthodoxy of
his sex-life, by his refusal to obey the teachings of Our Ford and
behave out of office hours "like a babe in a bottle"' (here the Director
made the sign of the T), 'he has proved himself an enemy of Society, a
subverter, ladies and gentlemen, of all Order and Stability, a
conspirator against Civilization itself. For this reason I propose to
dismis