ry few. It's prohibited, you see. But
as I make the laws here, I can also break them. With impunity, Mr.
Marx,' he added, turning to Bernard. 'Which I'm afraid you _can't_ do.'

Bernard sank into a yet more hopeless misery.

'But why is it prohibited?' asked the Savage. In the excitement of
meeting a man who had read Shakespeare he had momentarily forgotten
everything else.

The Controller shrugged his shoulders. 'Because it's old; that's the
chief reason. We haven't any use for old things here.'

'Even when they're beautiful?'

'Particularly when they're beautiful. Beauty's attractive, and we don't
want people to be attracted by old things. We want them to like the new
ones.'

'But the new ones are so stupid and horrible. Those plays, where there's
nothing but helicopters flying about and you _feel_ the people kissing.'
He made a grimace. 'Goats and monkeys!' Only in Othello's words could he
find an adequate vehicle for his contempt and hatred.

'Nice tame animals, anyhow,' the Controller murmured parenthetically.

'Why don't you let them see _Othello_ instead?'

'I've told you; it's old. Besides, they couldn't understand it.'

Yes, that was true. He remembered how Helmholtz had laughed at _Romeo
and Juliet_. 'Well, then,' he said, after a pause, 'something new that's
like _Othello_, and that they could understand.'

'That's what we've all been wanting to write,' said Helmholtz, breaking
a long silence.

'And it's what you never will write,' said the Controller. 'Because, if
it were really like _Othello_ nobody could understand it, however new it
might be. And if it were new, it couldn't possibly be like _Othello_.'

'Why not?'

'Yes, why not?' Helmholtz repeated. He too was forgetting the unpleasant
realities of the situation. Green with anxiety and apprehension, only
Bernard remembered them; the others ignored him. 'Why not?'

'Because our world is not the same as Othello's world. You can't make
flivvers without steel--and you can't make tragedies without social
instability. The world's stable now. People are happy; they get what
they want, and they never want what they can't get. They're well off;
they're safe; they're never ill; they're not afraid of death; they're
blissfully ignorant of passion and old age; they're plagued with no
mothers or fathers; they've got no wives, or children, or lovers to feel
strongly about; they're so conditioned that they practically can't help
behaving as they ought to behave. And if anything should go wrong,
there's _soma_. Which you go and chuck out of the window in the name of
liberty, Mr. Savage. _Liberty!_' He laughed. 'Expecting Deltas to know
what liberty is! And now expecting them to understand _Othello_! My good
boy!'

The Savage was silent for a little. 'All the same,' he insisted
obstinately, '_Othello_'s good, _Othello_'s better than those feelies.'

'Of course it is,' the Controller agreed. 'But that's the price we have
to pay for stability. You've got to choose between happiness and what
people used to call high art. We've sacrificed the high art. We have the
feelies and the scent organ instead.'

'But they don't mean anything.'

'They mean themselves; they mean a lot of agreeable sensations to the
audience.'

'But they're... they're told by an idiot.'

The Controller laughed. 'You're not being very polite to your friend,
Mr. Watson. One of our most distinguished Emotional Engineers...'

'But he's right,' said Helmholtz gloomily. 'Because it _is_ idiotic.
Writing when there's nothing to say...'

'Precisely. But that requires the most enormous ingenuity. You're making
flivvers out of the absolute minimum of steel--works of art out of
practically nothing but pure sensation.'

The Savage shook his head. 'It all seems to me quite horrible.'

'Of course it does. Actual happiness always looks pretty squalid in
comparison with the over-compensations for misery. And, of course,
stability isn't nearly so spectacular as instability. And being
contented has none of the glamour of a good fight against misfortune,
none of the picturesqueness of a struggle with temptation, or a fatal
o