 her arms round him and kissed him again and again.

****

Sometimes, for several days, Linda didn't get up at all. She lay in bed
and was sad. Or else she drank the stuff that Popé brought and laughed a
great deal and went to sleep. Sometimes she was sick. Often she forgot
to wash him, and there was nothing to eat except cold tortillas. He
remembered the first time she found those little animals in his hair,
how she screamed and screamed.

****

The happiest times were when she told him about the Other Place. 'And
you really can go flying, whenever you like?'

'Whenever you like.' And she would tell him about the lovely music that
came out of a box, and all the nice games you could play, and the
delicious things to eat and drink, and the light that came when you
pressed a little thing in the wall, and the pictures that you could hear
and feel and smell, as well as see, and another box for making nice
smells, and the pink and green and blue and silver houses as high as
mountains, and everybody happy and no one ever sad or angry, and every
one belonging to every one else, and the boxes where you could see and
hear what was happening at the other side of the world, and babies in
lovely clean bottles--everything so clean, and no nasty smells, no dirt
at all--and people never lonely, but living together and being so jolly
and happy, like the summer dances here in Malpais, but much happier, and
the happiness being there every day, every day.... He listened by the
hour. And sometimes, when he and the other children were tired with too
much playing, one of the old men of the pueblo would talk to them, in
those other words, of the great Transformer of the World, and of the
long fight between Right Hand and Left Hand, between Wet and Dry; of
Awonawilona, who made a great fog by thinking in the night, and then
made the whole world out of the fog; of Earth Mother and Sky Father; of
Ahaiyuta and Marsailema, the twins of War and Chance; of Jesus and
Pookong; of Mary and Etsanatlehi, the woman who makes herself young
again; of the Black Stone at Laguna and the Great Eagle and Our Lady of
Acoma. Strange stories, all the more wonderful to him for being told in
the other words and so not fully understood. Lying in bed, he would
think of Heaven and London and Our Lady of Acoma and the rows and rows
of babies in clean bottles and Jesus flying up and Linda flying up and
the great Director of World Hatcheries and Awonawilona.

****

Lots of men came to see Linda. The boys began to point their fingers at
him. In the strange other words they said that Linda was bad; they
called her names he did not understand, but that he knew were bad names.
One day they sang a song about her, again and again. He threw stones at
them. They threw back; a sharp stone cut his cheek. The blood wouldn't
stop; he was covered with blood.

****

Linda taught him to read. With a piece of charcoal she drew pictures on
the wall--an animal sitting down, a baby inside a bottle; then she wrote
letters. =The Cat is on the Mat. The Tot is in the Pot.= He
learned quickly and easily. When he knew how to read all the words she
wrote on the wall, Linda opened her big wooden box and pulled out from
under those funny little red trousers she never wore a thin little book.
He had often seen it before. 'When you're bigger,' she had said, 'you
can read it.' Well, now he was big enough. He was proud. 'I'm afraid you
won't find it very exciting,' she said. 'But it's the only thing I
have.' She sighed. 'If only you could see the lovely reading machines we
used to have in London!' He began reading. _The Chemical and
Bacteriological Conditioning of the Embryo. Practical Instructions for
Beta Embryo-Store Workers._ It took him a quarter of an hour to read the
title alone. He threw the book on the floor. 'Beastly, beastly book!' he
said, and began to cry.

****

The boys still sang their horrible song about Linda. Sometimes, too,
they laughed at him for being so ragged. When he tore his clothes, Linda
did not know how to mend them. In the Other Place, she told him, people
threw away clothes 