nd what manhood and freedom are?' Rage was making him
fluent; the words came easily, in a rush. 'Don't you?' he repeated, but
got no answer to his question. 'Very well, then,' he went on grimly.
'I'll teach you; I'll _make_ you be free whether you want to or not.'
And pushing open a window that looked on to the inner court of the
Hospital, he began to throw the little pill-boxes of _soma_ tablets in
handfuls out into the area.

For a moment the khaki mob was silent, petrified, at the spectacle of
this wanton sacrilege, with amazement and horror.

'He's mad,' whispered Bernard, staring with wide open eyes. 'They'll
kill him. They'll...' A great shout suddenly went up from the mob; a
wave of movement drove it menacingly towards the Savage. 'Ford help
him!' said Bernard, and averted his eyes.

'Ford helps those who help themselves.' And with a laugh, actually a
laugh of exultation, Helmholtz Watson pushed his way through the crowd.

'Free, free!' the Savage shouted, and with one hand continued to throw
the _soma_ into the area while, with the other, he punched the
indistinguishable faces of his assailants. 'Free!' And suddenly there
was Helmholtz at his side--'Good old Helmholtz!'--also punching--'Men at
last!'--and in the interval also throwing the poison out by handfuls
through the open window. 'Yes, men! men!' and there was no more poison
left. He picked up the cash-box and showed them its black emptiness.
'You're free!'

Howling, the Deltas charged with a redoubled fury.

Hesitant on the fringes of the battle, 'They're done for,' said Bernard
and, urged by a sudden impulse, ran forward to help them; then thought
better of it and halted; then, ashamed, stepped forward again; then
again thought better of it, and was standing in an agony of humiliated
indecision--thinking that _they_ might be killed if he didn't help them,
and that _he_ might be killed if he did--when (Ford be praised!),
goggle-eyed and swine-snouted in their gas-masks, in ran the police.

Bernard dashed to meet them. He waved his arms; and it was action, he
was doing something. He shouted 'Help!' several times, more and more
loudly so as to give himself the illusion of helping. 'Help! _Help!_
HELP!'

The policemen pushed him out of the way and got on with their work.
Three men with spraying machines buckled to their shoulders pumped thick
clouds of _soma_ vapour into the air. Two more were busy round the
portable Synthetic Music Box. Carrying water pistols charged with a
powerful anæsthetic, four others had pushed their way into the crowd and
were methodically laying out, squirt by squirt, the more ferocious of
the fighters.

'Quick, quick!' yelled Bernard. 'They'll be killed if you don't hurry.
They'll... Oh!' Annoyed by his chatter, one of the policemen had
given him a shot from his water pistol. Bernard stood for a second or
two wambling unsteadily on legs that seemed to have lost their bones,
their tendons, their muscles, to have become mere sticks of jelly, and
at last not even jelly--water: he tumbled in a heap on the floor.

Suddenly, from out of the Synthetic Music Box a Voice began to speak.
The Voice of Reason, the Voice of Good Feeling. The sound-track roll was
unwinding itself in Synthetic Anti-Riot Speech Number Two (Medium
Strength). Straight from the depths of a non-existent heart, 'My
friends, my friends!' said the Voice so pathetically, with a note of
such infinitely tender reproach that, behind their gas-masks, even the
policemen's eyes were momentarily dimmed with tears, 'what is the
meaning of this? Why aren't you all being happy and good together. Happy
and good,' the Voice repeated. 'At peace, at peace.' It trembled, sank
into a whisper and momentarily expired. 'Oh, I do want you to be happy,'
it began, with a yearning earnestness. 'I do so want you to be good!
Please, please be good and...'

Two minutes later the Voice and the _soma_ vapour had produced their
effect. In tears, the Deltas were kissing and hugging one another--half
a dozen twins at a time in a comprehensive embrace. Even Helmholtz and
the Savage were almost crying. A 