e cannot be supreme over ourselves. We
are not our own masters. We are God's property. Is it not our happiness
thus to view the matter? Is it any happiness, or any comfort, to
consider that we _are_ our own? It may be thought so by the young and
prosperous. These may think it a great thing to have everything, as they
suppose, their own way--to depend on no one--to have to think of nothing
out of sight, to be without the irksomeness of continual acknowledgment,
continual prayer, continual reference of what they do to the will of
another. But as time goes on, they, as all men, will find that
independence was not made for man--that it is an unnatural state--will
do for a while, but will not carry us on safely to the end..."'
Mustapha Mond paused, put down the first book and, picking up the other,
turned over the pages. 'Take this, for example,' he said, and in his
deep voice once more began to read: '"A man grows old; he feels in
himself that radical sense of weakness, of listlessness, of discomfort,
which accompanies the advance of age; and, feeling thus, imagines
himself merely sick, lulling his fears with the notion that this
distressing condition is due to some particular cause, from which, as
from an illness, he hopes to recover. Vain imaginings! That sickness is
old age; and a horrible disease it is. They say that it is the fear of
death and of what comes after death that makes men turn to religion as
they advance in years. But my own experience has given me the conviction
that, quite apart from any such terrors or imaginings, the religious
sentiment tends to develop as we grow older; to develop because, as the
passions grow calm, as the fancy and sensibilities are less excited and
less excitable, our reason becomes less troubled in its working, less
obscured by the images, desires and distractions, in which it used to be
absorbed; whereupon God emerges as from behind a cloud; our soul feels,
sees, turns towards the source of all light; turns naturally and
inevitably; for now that all that gave to the world of sensations its
life and charm has begun to leak away from us, now that phenomenal
existence is no more bolstered up by impressions from within or from
without, we feel the need to lean on something that abides, something
that will never play us false--a reality, an absolute and everlasting
truth. Yes, we inevitably turn to God; for this religious sentiment is
of its nature so pure, so delightful to the soul that experiences it,
that it makes up to us for all our other losses."' Mustapha Mond shut
the book and leaned back in his chair. 'One of the numerous things in
heaven and earth that these philosophers didn't dream about was this'
(he waved his hand), 'us, the modern world. "You can only be independent
of God while you've got youth and prosperity; independence won't take
you safely to the end." Well, we've now got youth and prosperity right
up to the end. What follows? Evidently, that we can be independent of
God. "The religious sentiment will compensate us for all our losses."
But there aren't any losses for us to compensate; religious sentiment is
superfluous. And why should we go hunting for a substitute for youthful
desires, when youthful desires never fail? A substitute for
distractions, when we go on enjoying all the old fooleries to the very
last? What need have we of repose when our minds and bodies continue to
delight in activity? of consolation, when we have _soma_? of something
immovable, when there is the social order?'

'Then you think there is no God?'

'No, I think there quite probably is one.'

'Then why?...'

Mustapha Mond checked him. 'But he manifests himself in different ways
to different men. In pre-modern times he manifested himself as the being
that's described in these books. Now...'

'How does he manifest himself now?' asked the Savage.

'Well, he manifests himself as an absence; as though he weren't there at
all.'

'That's your fault.'

'Call it the fault of civilization. God isn't compatible with machinery
and scientific medicine and universal happiness. You must make your
choice. O