ght, Lenina,' he repeated, and made a
strange grimacing attempt to smile.

'But, John... I thought you were... I mean, aren't you?...'

He shut the door and bent forward to say something to the driver. The
cab shot up into the air.

Looking down through the window in the floor, the Savage could see
Lenina's upturned face, pale in the bluish light of the lamps. The mouth
was open, she was calling. Her foreshortened figure rushed away from
him; the diminishing square of the roof seemed to be falling through the
darkness.

Five minutes later he was back in his room. From its hiding-place he
took out his mouse-nibbled volume, turned with religious care its
stained and crumpled pages, and began to read _Othello_. Othello, he
remembered, was like the hero of _Three Weeks in a Helicopter_--a black
man.

Drying her eyes, Lenina walked across the roof to the lift. On her way
down to the twenty-seventh floor she pulled out her _soma_ bottle. One
gramme, she decided, would not be enough; hers had been more than a
one-gramme affliction. But if she took two grammes, she ran the risk of
not waking up in time to-morrow morning. She compromised and, into her
cupped left palm, shook out three half-gramme tablets.




                              Chapter XII




Bernard had to shout through the locked door; the Savage would not open.

'But everybody's there, waiting for you.'

'Let them wait,' came back the muffled voice through the door.

'But you know quite well, John' (how difficult it is to sound persuasive
at the top of one's voice!), 'I asked them on purpose to meet you.'

'You ought to have asked _me_ first whether I wanted to meet _them_.'

'But you always came before, John.'

'That's precisely why I don't want to come again.'

'Just to please me,' Bernard bellowingly wheedled. 'Won't you come to
please me?'

'No.'

'Do you seriously mean it?'

'Yes.'

Despairingly, 'But what shall I do?' Bernard wailed.

'Go to hell!' bawled the exasperated voice from within.

'But the Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury is there to-night.'
Bernard was almost in tears.

'_Ai yaa tákwa!_' It was only in Zuñi that the Savage could adequately
express what he felt about the Arch-Community-Songster. '_Háni!_' he
added as an afterthought; and then (with what derisive ferocity!):
'_Sons éso tse-ná_.' And he spat on the ground, as Popé might have done.

In the end Bernard had to slink back, diminished, to his rooms and
inform the impatient assembly that the Savage would not be appearing
that evening. The news was received with indignation. The men were
furious at having been tricked into behaving politely to this
insignificant fellow with the unsavoury reputation and the heretical
opinions. The higher their position in the hierarchy, the deeper their
resentment.

'To play such a joke on me,' the Arch-Songster kept repeating, 'on
_me_!'

As for the women, they indignantly felt that they had been had on false
pretences--had by a wretched little man who had had alcohol poured into
his bottle by mistake--by a creature with a Gamma-Minus physique. It was
an outrage, and they said so, more and more loudly. The Head Mistress of
Eton was particularly scathing.

Lenina alone said nothing. Pale, her blue eyes clouded with an unwonted
melancholy, she sat in a corner, cut off from those who surrounded her
by an emotion which they did not share. She had come to the party filled
with a strange feeling of anxious exultation. 'In a few minutes,' she
had said to herself, as she entered the room, 'I shall be seeing him,
talking to him, telling him' (for she had come with her mind made up)
'that I like him--more than anybody I've ever known. And then perhaps
he'll say...'

What would he say? The blood had rushed to her cheeks.

'Why was he so strange the other night, after the feelies? So queer. And
yet I'm absolutely sure he really does rather like me. I'm sure...'

It was at this moment that Bernard had made his announcement; the Savage
wasn't coming to the party.

Lenina suddenly felt all the sensations normally experienced at the
beginning of a Violent Passion Surro