g seems to be coming to me.' In spite of
all his troubles, he seemed, Bernard thought, profoundly happy.

Helmholtz and the Savage took to one another at once. So cordially
indeed that Bernard felt a sharp pang of jealousy. In all these weeks he
had never come to so close an intimacy with the Savage as Helmholtz
immediately achieved. Watching them, listening to their talk, he found
himself sometimes resentfully wishing that he had never brought them
together. He was ashamed of his jealousy and alternately made efforts of
will and took _soma_ to keep himself from feeling it. But the efforts
were not very successful; and between the _soma_-holidays there were, of
necessity, intervals. The odious sentiment kept on returning.

At his third meeting with the Savage, Helmholtz recited his rhymes on
Solitude.

'What do you think of them?' he asked when he had done.

The Savage shook his head. 'Listen to _this_,' was his answer; and
unlocking the drawer in which he kept his mouse-eaten book, he opened
and read:

                    'Let the bird of loudest lay,
                    On the sole Arabian tree,
                    Herald sad and trumpet be...'

Helmholtz listened with a growing excitement. At 'sole Arabian tree' he
started; at 'thou shrieking harbinger' he smiled with sudden pleasure;
at 'every fowl of tyrant wing' the blood rushed up into his cheeks; but
at 'defunctive music' he turned pale and trembled with an unprecedented
emotion. The Savage read on:

                   'Property was thus appall'd,
                   That the self was not the same;
                   Single nature's double name
                   Neither two nor one was call'd.

                   Reason in itself confounded
                   Saw division grow together...'

'Orgy-porgy!' said Bernard, interrupting the reading with a loud,
unpleasant laugh. 'It's just a Solidarity Service hymn.' He was
revenging himself on his two friends for liking one another more than
they liked him.

In the course of their next two or three meetings he frequently repeated
this little act of vengeance. It was simple and, since both Helmholtz
and the Savage were dreadfully pained by the shattering and defilement
of a favourite poetic crystal, extremely effective. In the end,
Helmholtz threatened to kick him out of the room if he dared to
interrupt again. And yet, strangely enough, the next interruption, the
most disgraceful of all, came from Helmholtz himself.

The Savage was reading _Romeo and Juliet_ aloud--reading (for all the
time he was seeing himself as Romeo and Lenina as Juliet) with an
intense and quivering passion. Helmholtz had listened to the scene of
the lovers' first meeting with a puzzled interest. The scene in the
orchard had delighted him with its poetry; but the sentiments expressed
had made him smile. Getting into such a state about having a girl--it
seemed rather ridiculous. But, taken detail by verbal detail, what a
superb piece of emotional engineering! 'That old fellow,' he said, 'he
makes our best propaganda technicians look absolutely silly.' The Savage
smiled triumphantly and resumed his reading. All went tolerably well
until, in the last scene of the third act, Capulet and Lady Capulet
began to bully Juliet to marry Paris. Helmholtz had been restless
throughout the entire scene; but when, pathetically mimed by the Savage,
Juliet cried out:

             'Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
             That sees into the bottom of my grief?
             O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
             Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
             Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
             In that dim monument where Tybalt lies...'

when Juliet said this, Helmholtz broke out in an explosion of
uncontrollable guffawing.

The mother and father (grotesque obscenity) forcing the daughter to have
some one she didn't want! And the idiotic girl not saying that she was
having some one else whom (for the moment, at any rate) she preferred!
In its smutty absurdity the situation was irresistibly comical. He had
managed, with