ithin were finished. The door opened; they came out. Kothlu came first,
his right hand outstretched and tightly closed, as though over some
precious jewel. Her clenched hand similarly outstretched, Kiakimé
followed. They walked in silence, and in silence, behind them, came the
brothers and sisters and cousins and all the troop of old people.

They walked out of the pueblo, across the mesa. At the edge of the cliff
they halted, facing the early morning sun. Kothlu opened his hand. A
pinch of corn meal lay white on the palm; he breathed on it, murmured a
few words, then threw it, a handful of white dust, towards the sun.
Kiakimé did the same. Then Kiakimé's father stepped forward, and holding
up a feathered prayer stick, made a long prayer, then threw the stick
after the corn meal.

'It is finished,' said old Mitsima in a loud voice. 'They are married.'

'Well,' said Linda, as they turned away, 'all I can say is, it does seem
a lot of fuss to make about so little. In civilized countries, when a
boy wants to have a girl, he just... But where _are_ you going,
John?'

He paid no attention to her calling, but ran on, away, away, anywhere to
be by himself.

It is finished. Old Mitsima's words repeated themselves in his mind.
Finished, finished... In silence and from a long way off, but
violently, desperately, hopelessly, he had loved Kiakimé. And now it was
finished. He was sixteen.

****

At the full moon, in the Antelope Kiva, secrets would be told, secrets
would be done and borne. They would go down, boys, into the kiva and
come out again, men. The boys were all afraid and at the same time
impatient. And at last it was the day. The sun went down, the moon rose.
He went with the others. Men were standing, dark, at the entrance to the
kiva; the ladder went down into the red lighted depths. Already the
leading boys had begun to climb down. Suddenly one of the men stepped
forward, caught him by the arm, and pulled him out of the ranks. He
broke free and dodged back into his place among the others. This time
the man struck him, pulled his hair. 'Not for you, white-hair!' 'Not for
the son of the she-dog,' said one of the other men. The boys laughed.
'Go!' And as he still hovered on the fringes of the group, 'Go!' the men
shouted again. One of them bent down, took a stone, threw it. 'Go, go,
go!' There was a shower of stones. Bleeding, he ran away into the
darkness. From the red-lit kiva came the noise of singing. The last of
the boys had climbed down the ladder. He was all alone.

All alone, outside the pueblo, on the bare plain of the mesa. The rock
was like bleached bones in the moonlight. Down in the valley, the
coyotes were howling at the moon. The bruises hurt him, the cuts were
still bleeding; but it was not for pain that he sobbed; it was because
he was all alone, because he had been driven out, alone, into this
skeleton world of rocks and moonlight. At the edge of the precipice he
sat down. The moon was behind him; he looked down into the black shadow
of the mesa, into the black shadow of death. He had only to take one
step, one little jump.... He held out his right hand in the
moonlight. From the cut on his wrist the blood was still oozing. Every
few seconds a drop fell, dark, almost colourless in the dead light.
Drop, drop, drop. To-morrow and to-morrow and to-morrow...

He had discovered Time and Death and God.

'Alone, always alone,' the young man was saying.

The words awoke a plaintive echo in Bernard's mind. Alone, alone...
'So am I,' he said, on a gush of confidingness. 'Terribly alone.'

'Are you?' John looked surprised. 'I thought that in the Other
Place... I mean, Linda always said that nobody was ever alone there.'

Bernard blushed uncomfortably. 'You see,' he said, mumbling and with
averted eyes, 'I'm rather different from most people, I suppose. If one
happens to be decanted different...'

'Yes, that's just it.' The young man nodded. 'If one's different, one's
bound to be lonely. They're beastly to one. Do you know, they shut me
out of absolutely everything? When the other boys were sent out to spend
the nigh