ng been sung and a little love made on that
famous bearskin, every hair of which--the Assistant Predestinator was
perfectly right--could be separately and distinctly felt), the negro had
a helicopter accident, fell on his head. Thump! what a twinge through
the forehead! A chorus of _ow's_ and _aie's_ went up from the audience.

The concussion knocked all the negro's conditioning into a cocked hat.
He developed for the Beta blonde an exclusive and maniacal passion. She
protested. He persisted. There were struggles, pursuits, an assault on a
rival, finally a sensational kidnapping. The Beta blonde was ravished
away into the sky and kept there, hovering, for three weeks in a wildly
anti-social _tête-à-tête_ with the black madman. Finally, after a whole
series of adventures and much aerial acrobacy, three handsome young
Alphas succeeded in rescuing her. The negro was packed off to an Adult
Re-conditioning Centre and the film ended happily and decorously, with
the Beta blonde becoming the mistress of all her three rescuers. They
interrupted themselves for a moment to sing a synthetic quartet, with
full super-orchestral accompaniment and gardenias on the scent organ.
Then the bearskin made a final appearance and, amid a blare of
sexophones, the last stereoscopic kiss faded into darkness, the last
electric titillation died on the lips like a dying moth that quivers,
quivers, ever more feebly, ever more faintly, and at last is quite,
quite still.

But for Lenina the moth did not completely die. Even after the lights
had gone up, while they were shuffling slowly along with the crowd
towards the lifts, its ghost still fluttered against her lips, still
traced fine shuddering roads of anxiety and pleasure across her skin.
Her cheeks were flushed, her eyes dewily bright, her breath came deeply.
She caught hold of the Savage's arm and pressed it, limp, against her
side. He looked down at her for a moment, pale, pained, desiring, and
ashamed of his desire. He was not worthy, not... Their eyes for a
moment met. What treasures hers promised! A queen's ransom of
temperament. Hastily he looked away, disengaged his imprisoned arm. He
was obscurely terrified lest she should cease to be something he could
feel himself unworthy of.

'I don't think you ought to see things like that,' he said, making haste
to transfer from Lenina herself to the surrounding circumstances the
blame for any past or possible future lapse from perfection.

'Things like what, John?'

'Like this horrible film.'

'Horrible?' Lenina was genuinely astonished. 'But I thought it was
lovely.'

'It was base,' he said indignantly, 'it was ignoble.'

She shook her head. 'I don't know what you mean.' Why was he so queer?
Why did he go out of his way to spoil things?

In the taxicopter he hardly even looked at her. Bound by strong vows
that had never been pronounced, obedient to laws that had long since
ceased to run, he sat averted and in silence. Sometimes, as though a
finger had plucked at some taut, almost breaking string, his whole body
would shake with a sudden nervous start.

The taxicopter landed on the roof of Lenina's apartment house. 'At
last,' she thought exultantly as she stepped out of the cab. At
last--even though he _had_ been so queer just now. Standing under a
lamp, she peered into her hand-mirror. At last. Yes, her nose _was_ a
bit shiny. She shook the loose powder from her puff. While he was paying
off the taxi--there would just be time. She rubbed at the shininess,
thinking: 'He's terribly good-looking. No need for him to be shy like
Bernard. And yet... Any other man would have done it long ago. Well,
now at last.' That fragment of a face in the little round mirror
suddenly smiled at her.

'Good-night,' said a strangled voice behind her. Lenina wheeled round.
He was standing in the doorway of the cab, his eyes fixed, staring; had
evidently been staring all this time while she was powdering her nose,
waiting--but what for? or hesitating, trying to make up his mind, and
all the time thinking, thinking--she could not imagine what
extraordinary thoughts. 'Good-ni