nd
unwithered (for senility galloped so hard that it had no time to age the
cheeks--only the heart and brain) turned as they passed. Their progress
was followed by the blank, incurious eyes of second infancy. The Savage
shuddered as he looked.

Linda was lying in the last of the long row of beds, next to the wall.
Propped up on pillows, she was watching the Semi-finals of the South
American Riemann-Surface Tennis Championship, which were being played in
silent and diminished reproduction on the screen of the television box
at the foot of the bed. Hither and thither across their square of
illumined glass the little figures noiselessly darted, like fish in an
aquarium--the silent but agitated inhabitants of another world.

Linda looked on, vaguely and uncomprehendingly smiling. Her pale,
bloated face wore an expression of imbecile happiness. Every now and
then her eyelids closed, and for a few seconds she seemed to be dozing.
Then with a little start she would wake up again--wake up to the
aquarium antics of the Tennis Champions, to the Super-Vox-Wurlitzeriana
rendering of 'Hug me till you drug me, honey,' to the warm draught of
verbena that came blowing through the ventilator above her head--would
wake to these things, or rather to a dream of which these things,
transformed and embellished by the _soma_ in her blood, were the
marvellous constituents, and smile once more her broken and discoloured
smile of infantile contentment.

'Well, I must go,' said the nurse. 'I've got my batch of children
coming. Besides, there's Number 3.' She pointed up the ward. 'Might go
off any minute now. Well, make yourself comfortable.' She walked briskly
away.

The Savage sat down beside the bed.

'Linda,' he whispered, taking her hand.

At the sound of her name, she turned. Her vague eyes brightened with
recognition. She squeezed his hand, she smiled, her lips moved; then
quite suddenly her head fell forward. She was asleep. He sat watching
her--seeking through the tired flesh, seeking and finding that young,
bright face which had stooped over his childhood in Malpais, remembering
(and he closed his eyes) her voice, her movements, all the events of
their life together. 'Streptocock-Gee to Banbury-T...' How beautiful
her singing had been! And those childish rhymes, how magically strange
and mysterious!

             A, B, C, vitamin D:
             The fat's in the liver, the cod's in the sea.

He felt the hot tears welling up behind his eyelids as he recalled the
words and Linda's voice as she repeated them. And then the reading
lessons; The tot is in the pot, the cat is on the mat; and the
Elementary Instructions for Beta Workers in the Embryo Store. And long
evenings by the fire or, in summer time, on the roof of the little
house, when she told him those stories about the Other Place, outside
the Reservation: that beautiful, beautiful Other Place, whose memory, as
of a heaven, a paradise of goodness and loveliness, he still kept whole
and intact, undefiled by contact with the reality of this real London,
these actual civilized men and women.

A sudden noise of shrill voices made him open his eyes and, after
hastily brushing away the tears, look round. What seemed an interminable
stream of identical eight-year-old male twins was pouring into the room.
Twin after twin, twin after twin, they came--a nightmare. Their faces,
their repeated face--for there was only one between the lot of
them--puggishly stared, all nostrils and pale goggling eyes. Their
uniform was khaki. All their mouths hung open. Squealing and chattering
they entered. In a moment, it seemed, the ward was maggoty with them.
They swarmed between the beds, clambered over, crawled under, peeped
into the television boxes, made faces at the patients.

Linda astonished and rather alarmed them. A group stood clustered at the
foot of her bed, staring with the frightened and stupid curiosity of
animals suddenly confronted by the unknown.

'Oh, look, look!' They spoke in low, scared voices. 'Whatever is the
matter with her? Why is she so fat?'

They had never seen a face like hers befo