uildford the down-line followed the Wey valley to Godalming, then,
over Milford and Witley, proceeded to Haslemere and on through
Petersfield towards Portsmouth. Roughly parallel to it, the up-line
passed over Worplesden, Tongham, Puttenham, Elstead and Grayshott.
Between the Hog's Back and Hindhead there were points where the two
lines were not more than six or seven kilometres apart. The distance was
too small for careless flyers--particularly at night and when they had
taken half a gramme too much. There had been accidents. Serious ones. It
had been decided to deflect the up-line a few kilometres to the west.
Between Grayshott and Tongham four abandoned air-lighthouses marked the
course of the old Portsmouth-to-London road. The skies above them were
silent and deserted. It was over Selborne, Borden and Farnham that the
helicopters now ceaselessly hummed and roared.

The Savage had chosen as his hermitage the old lighthouse which stood on
the crest of the hill between Puttenham and Elstead. The building was of
ferro-concrete and in excellent condition--almost too comfortable, the
Savage had thought when he first explored the place, almost too
civilizedly luxurious. He pacified his conscience by promising himself a
compensatingly harder self-discipline, purifications the more complete
and thorough. His first night in the hermitage was, deliberately, a
sleepless one. He spent the hours on his knees praying, now to that
Heaven from which the guilty Claudius had begged forgiveness, now in
Zuñi to Awonawilona, now to Jesus and Pookong, now to his own guardian
animal, the eagle. From time to time he stretched out his arms as though
he were on the cross, and held them thus through long minutes of an ache
that gradually increased till it became a tremulous and excruciating
agony; held them, in voluntary crucifixion, while he repeated, through
clenched teeth (the sweat, meanwhile, pouring down his face), 'Oh,
forgive me! Oh, make me pure! Oh, help me to be good!' again and again,
till he was on the point of fainting from the pain.

When morning came, he felt he had earned the right to inhabit the
lighthouse: yes, even though there still _was_ glass in most of the
windows, even though the view from the platform _was_ so fine. For the
very reason why he had chosen the lighthouse had become almost instantly
a reason for going somewhere else. He had decided to live there because
the view was so beautiful, because, from his vantage point, he seemed to
be looking out on to the incarnation of a divine being. But who was he
to be pampered with the daily and hourly sight of loveliness? Who was he
to be living in the visible presence of God? All he deserved to live in
was some filthy sty, some blind hole in the ground. Stiff and still
aching after his long night of pain, but for that very reason inwardly
reassured, he climbed up to the platform of his tower, he looked out
over the bright sunrise world which he had regained the right to
inhabit. On the north the view was bounded by the long chalk ridge of
the Hog's Back, from behind whose eastern extremity rose the towers of
the seven skyscrapers which constituted Guildford. Seeing them, the
Savage made a grimace; but he was to become reconciled to them in course
of time; for at night they twinkled gaily with geometrical
constellations, or else, flood-lighted, pointed their luminous fingers
(with a gesture whose significance nobody in England but the Savage now
understood) solemnly towards the plumbless mysteries of heaven.

In the valley which separated the Hog's Back from the sandy hill on
which the lighthouse stood, Puttenham was a modest little village nine
stories high, with silos, a poultry farm, and a small vitamin-D factory.
On the other side of the lighthouse, towards the south, the ground fell
away in long slopes of heather to a chain of ponds.

Beyond them, above the intervening woods, rose the fourteen-story tower
of Elstead. Dim in the hazy English air, Hindhead and Selborne invited
the eye into a blue romantic distance. But it was not alone the distance
that had attracted th