with holes in them and got new ones. 'Rags, rags!'
the boys used to shout at him. 'But I can read,' he said to himself,
'and they can't. They don't even know what reading is.' It was fairly
easy, if he thought hard enough about the reading, to pretend that he
didn't mind when they made fun of him. He asked Linda to give him the
book again.

The more the boys pointed and sang, the harder he read. Soon he could
read all the words quite well. Even the longest. But what did they mean?
He asked Linda; but even when she could answer it didn't seem to make it
very clear. And generally she couldn't answer at all.

'What are chemicals?' he would ask.

'Oh, stuff like magnesium salts, and alcohol for keeping the Deltas and
Epsilons small and backward, and calcium carbonate for bones, and all
that sort of thing.'

'But how do you make chemicals, Linda? Where do they come from?'

'Well, I don't know. You get them out of bottles. And when the bottles
are empty, you send up to the Chemical Store for more. It's the Chemical
Store people who make them, I suppose. Or else they send to the factory
for them. I don't know. I never did any chemistry. My job was always
with the embryos.'

It was the same with everything else he asked about. Linda never seemed
to know. The old men of the pueblo had much more definite answers.

'The seed of men and all creatures, the seed of the sun and the seed of
earth and the seed of the sky--Awonawilona made them all out of the Fog
of Increase. Now the world has four wombs; and he laid the seeds in the
lowest of the four wombs. And gradually the seeds began to grow...'

****

One day (John calculated later that it must have been soon after his
twelfth birthday) he came home and found a book that he had never seen
before lying on the floor in the bedroom. It was a thick book and looked
very old. The binding had been eaten by mice; some of its pages were
loose and crumpled. He picked it up, looked at the title-page: the book
was called _The Complete Works of William Shakespeare_.

Linda was lying on the bed, sipping that horrible stinking _mescal_ out
of a cup. 'Popé brought it,' she said. Her voice was thick and hoarse
like somebody else's voice. 'It was lying in one of the chests of the
Antelope Kiva. It's supposed to have been there for hundreds of years. I
expect it's true, because I looked at it, and it seemed to be full of
nonsense. Uncivilized. Still, it'll be good enough for you to practise
your reading on.' She took a last sip, set the cup down on the floor
beside the bed, turned over on her side, hiccoughed once or twice and
went to sleep.

He opened the book at random.

                     Nay, but to live
             In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
             Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
             Over the nasty sty...

The strange words rolled through his mind; rumbled, like talking
thunder; like the drums at the summer dances, if the drums could have
spoken; like the men singing the Corn Song, beautiful, beautiful, so
that you cried; like old Mitsima saying magic over his feathers and his
carved sticks and his bits of bone and stone--_kiathla tsilu silokwe
silokwe silokwe. Kiai silu silu, tsithl_--but better than Mitsima's
magic, because it meant more, because it talked to _him_; talked
wonderfully and only half-understandably, a terrible beautiful magic,
about Linda; about Linda lying there snoring, with the empty cup on the
floor beside the bed; about Linda and Popé, Linda and Popé.

****

He hated Popé more and more. A man can smile and smile and be a villain.
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain. What did the
words exactly mean? He only half knew. But their magic was strong and
went on rumbling in his head, and somehow it was as though he had never
really hated Popé before; never really hated him because he had never
been able to say how much he hated him. But now he had these words,
these words like drums and singing and magic. These words and the
strange, strange story out of which they were taken (he couldn't make
head or tail of it, but it 