fresh supply of pill-boxes was brought
in from the Bursary; a new distribution was hastily made and, to the
sound of the Voice's richly affectionate, baritone valedictions, the
twins dispersed, blubbering as though their hearts would break.
'Good-bye, my dearest, dearest friends, Ford keep you! Good-bye,
my dearest, dearest friends. Ford keep you. Good-bye, my dearest,
dearest...'

When the last of the Deltas had gone the policeman switched off the
current. The angelic Voice fell silent.

'Will you come quietly?' asked the Sergeant, 'or must we anæsthetize?'
He pointed his water pistol menacingly.

'Oh, we'll come quietly,' the Savage answered, dabbing alternately a cut
lip, a scratched neck, and a bitten left hand.

Still keeping his handkerchief to his bleeding nose, Helmholtz nodded in
confirmation.

Awake and having recovered the use of his legs, Bernard had chosen this
moment to move as inconspicuously as he could towards the door.

'Hi, you there,' called the Sergeant, and a swine-masked policeman
hurried across the room and laid a hand on the young man's shoulder.

Bernard turned with an expression of indignant innocence. Escaping? He
hadn't dreamed of such a thing. 'Though what on earth you want _me_
for,' he said to the Sergeant, 'I really can't imagine.'

'You're a friend of the prisoners, aren't you?'

'Well...' said Bernard, and hesitated. No, he really couldn't deny
it. 'Why shouldn't I be?' he asked.

'Come on, then,' said the Sergeant, and led the way towards the door and
the waiting police car.




                              Chapter XVI




The room into which the three were ushered was the Controller's study.

'His fordship will be down in a moment.' The Gamma butler left them to
themselves.

Helmholtz laughed aloud.

'It's more like a caffeine-solution party than a trial,' he said, and
let himself fall into the most luxurious of the pneumatic arm-chairs.
'Cheer up, Bernard,' he added, catching sight of his friend's green
unhappy face. But Bernard would not be cheered; without answering,
without even looking at Helmholtz, he went and sat down on the most
uncomfortable chair in the room, carefully chosen in the obscure hope of
somehow deprecating the wrath of the higher powers.

The Savage meanwhile wandered restlessly round the room, peering with a
vague superficial inquisitiveness at the books in the shelves, at the
sound-track rolls and the reading-machine bobbins in their numbered
pigeon-holes. On the table under the window lay a massive volume bound
in limp black leather-surrogate, and stamped with large golden T's. He
picked it up and opened it. MY LIFE AND WORK, BY OUR FORD. The book had
been published at Detroit by the Society for the Propagation of Fordian
Knowledge. Idly he turned the pages, read a sentence here, a paragraph
there, and had just come to the conclusion that the book didn't interest
him, when the door opened, and the Resident World Controller for Western
Europe walked briskly into the room.

Mustapha Mond shook hands with all three of them; but it was to the
Savage that he addressed himself. 'So you don't much like civilization,
Mr. Savage,' he said.

The Savage looked at him. He had been prepared to lie, to bluster, to
remain sullenly unresponsive; but, reassured by the good-humoured
intelligence of the Controller's face, he decided to tell the truth,
straightforwardly. 'No.' He shook his head.

Bernard started and looked horrified. What would the Controller think?
To be labelled as the friend of a man who said that he didn't like
civilization--said it openly and, of all people, to the Controller--it
was terrible. 'But, John,' he began. A look from Mustapha Mond reduced
him to an abject silence.

'Of course,' the Savage went on to admit, 'there are some very nice
things. All that music in the air, for instance...'

'Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments will hum about my ears, and
sometimes voices.'

The Savage's face lit up with a sudden pleasure. 'Have you read it too?'
he asked. 'I thought nobody knew about that book here, in England.'

'Almost nobody. I'm one of the ve