ovsky Group in chorus. Bed 20 was
completely forgotten.

'Oh, God, God, God...' the Savage kept repeating to himself. In the
chaos of grief and remorse that filled his mind it was the one
articulate word. 'God!' he whispered it aloud. 'God...'

'Whatever _is_ he saying?' said a voice, very near, distinct and shrill
through the warblings of the Super-Wurlitzer.

The Savage violently started and, uncovering his face, looked round.
Five khaki twins, each with the stump of a long éclair in his right
hand, and their identical faces variously smeared with liquid chocolate,
were standing in a row, puggily goggling at him.

They met his eyes and simultaneously grinned. One of them pointed with
his éclair butt.

'Is she dead?' he asked.

The Savage stared at them for a moment in silence. Then, in silence he
rose to his feet, in silence slowly walked towards the door.

'Is she dead?' repeated the inquisitive twin trotting at his side.

The Savage looked down at him and still without speaking pushed him
away. The twin fell on the floor and at once began to howl. The Savage
did not even look round.




                               Chapter XV




The menial staff of the Park Lane Hospital for the Dying consisted of
one hundred and sixty-two Deltas divided into two Bokanovsky Groups of
eighty-four red-headed female and seventy-eight dark dolichocephalic
male twins, respectively. At six, when their working day was over, the
two Groups assembled in the vestibule of the Hospital and were served by
the Deputy Sub-Bursar with their _soma_ ration.

From the lift the Savage stepped out into the midst of them. But his
mind was elsewhere--with death, with his grief, and his remorse;
mechanically, without consciousness of what he was doing, he began to
shoulder his way through the crowd.

'Who are you pushing? Where do you think you're going?'

High, low, from a multitude of separate throats, only two voices
squeaked or growled. Repeated indefinitely, as though by a train of
mirrors, two faces, one a hairless and freckled moon haloed in orange,
the other a thin, beaked bird-mask, stubbly with two days' beard, turned
angrily towards him. Their words and, in his ribs, the sharp nudging of
elbows, broke through his unawareness. He woke once more to external
reality, looked round him, knew what he saw--knew it, with a sinking
sense of horror and disgust, for the recurrent delirium of his days and
nights, the nightmare of swarming indistinguishable sameness. Twins,
twins.... Like maggots they had swarmed defilingly over the mystery
of Linda's death. Maggots again, but larger, full grown, they now
crawled across his grief and his repentance. He halted and, with
bewildered and horrified eyes, stared round him at the khaki mob, in the
midst of which, overtopping it by a full head, he stood. 'How many
goodly creatures are there here!' The singing words mocked him
derisively. 'How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world...'

'_Soma_ distribution!' shouted a loud voice. 'In good order, please.
Hurry up there.'

A door had been opened, a table and chair carried into the vestibule.
The voice was that of a jaunty young Alpha, who had entered carrying a
black iron cash-box. A murmur of satisfaction went up from the expectant
twins. They forgot all about the Savage. Their attention was now
focussed on the black cash-box, which the young man had placed on the
table, and was now in process of unlocking. The lid was lifted.

'Oo-oh!' said all the hundred and sixty-two simultaneously, as though
they were looking at fireworks.

The young man took out a handful of tiny pillboxes. 'Now,' he said
peremptorily, 'step forward, please. One at a time, and no shoving.'

One at a time, with no shoving, the twins stepped forward. First two
males, then a female, then another male, then three females, then...

The Savage stood looking on. 'O brave new world, O brave new world...'
In his mind the singing words seemed to change their tone. They
had mocked him through his misery and remorse, mocked him with how
hideous a note of cynical derision! Fiendishly laughing, they had
i