m was to find an
economically sounder reason for consuming transport than a mere
affection for primroses and landscapes. It was duly found.

'We condition the masses to hate the country,' concluded the Director.
'But simultaneously we condition them to love all country sports. At the
same time, we see to it that all country sports shall entail the use of
elaborate apparatus. So that they consume manufactured articles as well
as transport. Hence those electric shocks.'

'I see,' said the student, and was silent, lost in admiration.

There was a silence; then, clearing his throat, 'Once upon a time,' the
Director began, 'while Our Ford was still on earth, there was a little
boy called Reuben Rabinovitch. Reuben was the child of Polish-speaking
parents.' The Director interrupted himself. 'You know what Polish is, I
suppose?'

'A dead language.'

'Like French and German,' added another student, officiously showing off
his learning.

'And "parent?"?' questioned the D.H.C.

There was an uneasy silence. Several of the boys blushed. They had not
yet learned to draw the significant but often very fine distinction
between smut and pure science. One, at last, had the courage to raise a
hand.

'Human beings used to be...' he hesitated; the blood rushed to his
cheeks. 'Well, they used to be viviparous.'

'Quite right.' The Director nodded approvingly.

'And when the babies were decanted...'

'"Born",' came the correction.

'Well, then they were the parents--I mean, not the babies, of course;
the other ones.' The poor boy was overwhelmed with confusion.

'In brief,' the Director summed up, 'the parents were the father and the
mother.' The smut that was really science fell with a crash into the
boys' eye-avoiding silence. 'Mother,' he repeated loudly rubbing in the
science; and, leaning back in his chair, 'These,' he said gravely, 'are
unpleasant facts; I know it. But, then, most historical facts _are_
unpleasant.'

He returned to Little Reuben--to Little Reuben, in whose room, one
evening, by an oversight, his father and mother (crash, crash!) happened
to leave the radio turned on.

('For you must remember that in those days of gross viviparous
reproduction, children were always brought up by their parents and not
in State Conditioning Centres.')

While the child was asleep, a broadcast programme from London suddenly
started to come through; and the next morning, to the astonishment of
his crash and crash (the more daring of the boys ventured to grin at one
another) Little Reuben woke up repeating word for word a long lecture by
that curious old writer ('one of the very few whose works have been
permitted to come down to us'), George Bernard Shaw, who was speaking,
according to a well-authenticated tradition, about his own genius. To
Little Reuben's wink and snigger, this lecture was, of course, perfectly
incomprehensible and, imagining that their child had suddenly gone mad,
they sent for a doctor. He, fortunately, understood English, recognized
the discourse as that which Shaw had broadcasted the previous evening,
realized the significance of what had happened, and sent a letter to the
medical press about it.

'The principle of sleep-teaching, or hypnopædia, had been discovered.'
The D.H.C. made an impressive pause.

The principle had been discovered; but many, many years were to elapse
before that principle was usefully applied.

'The case of Little Reuben occurred only twenty-three years after Our
Ford's first T-Model was put on the market.' (Here the Director made a
sign of the T on his stomach and all the students reverently followed
suit.) 'And yet...'

Furiously the students scribbled. '_Hypnopædia, first used officially in
A.F. 214. Why not before? Two reason._ (_a_)...'

'These early experimenters,' the D.H.C. was saying, 'were on the wrong
track. They thought that hypnopædia could be made an instrument of
intellectual education...'

(A small boy asleep on his right side, the right arm stuck out, the
right hand hanging limp over the edge of the bed. Through a round
grating in the side of a box a voice speaks softly.

'The Ni