began to talk a lot of incomprehensible and dangerous nonsense.
Lenina did her best to stop the ears of her mind; but every now and then
a phrase would insist on becoming audible. '...to try the effect of
arresting my impulses,' she heard him say. The words seemed to touch a
spring in her mind.

'Never put off till to-morrow the fun you can have to-day,' she said
gravely.

'Two hundred repetitions, twice a week from fourteen to sixteen and a
half,' was all his comment. The mad bad talk rambled on. 'I want to know
what passion is,' she heard him saying. 'I want to feel something
strongly.'

'When the individual feels, the community reels,' Lenina pronounced.

'Well, why shouldn't it reel a bit?'

'Bernard!'

But Bernard remained unabashed.

'Adults intellectually and during working hours,' he went on. 'Infants
where feeling and desire are concerned.'

'Our Ford loved infants.'

Ignoring the interruption, 'It suddenly struck me the other day,'
continued Bernard, 'that it might be possible to be an adult all the
time.'

'I don't understand.' Lenina's tone was firm.

'I know you don't. And that's why we went to bed together
yesterday--like infants--instead of being adults and waiting.'

'But it was fun,' Lenina insisted. 'Wasn't it?'

'Oh, the greatest fun,' he answered, but in a voice so mournful, with an
expression so profoundly miserable, that Lenina felt all her triumph
suddenly evaporate. Perhaps he had found her too plump, after all.

'I told you so,' was all that Fanny said, when Lenina came and made her
confidences. 'It's the alcohol they put in his surrogate.'

'All the same,' Lenina insisted. 'I do like him. He has such awfully
nice hands. And the way he moves his shoulders--that's very attractive.'
She sighed. 'But I wish he weren't so odd.'


                                  § 2

Halting for a moment outside the door of the Director's room, Bernard
drew a deep breath and squared his shoulders, bracing himself to meet
the dislike and disapproval which he was certain of finding within. He
knocked and entered.

'A permit for you to initial, Director,' he said as airily as possible,
and laid the paper on the writing-table.

The Director glanced at him sourly. But the stamp of the World
Controller's Office was at the head of the paper and the signature of
Mustapha Mond, bold and black, across the bottom. Everything was
perfectly in order. The Director had no choice. He pencilled his
initials--two small pale letters abject at the feet of Mustapha
Mond----and was about to return the paper without a word of comment or
genial Ford-speed, when his eye was caught by something written in the
body of the permit.

'For the New Mexican Reservation?' he said, and his tone, the face he
lifted to Bernard, expressed a kind of agitated astonishment.

Surprised by his surprise, Bernard nodded. There was a silence.

The Director leaned back in his chair, frowning. 'How long ago was it?'
he said, speaking more to himself than to Bernard. 'Twenty years, I
suppose. Nearer twenty-five. I must have been your age...' He sighed
and shook his head.

Bernard felt extremely uncomfortable. A man so conventional, so
scrupulously correct as the Director--and to commit so gross a solecism!
It made him want to hide his face, to run out of the room. Not that he
himself saw anything intrinsically objectionable in people talking about
the remote past; that was one of those hypnopædic prejudices he had (so
he imagined) completely got rid of. What made him feel shy was the
knowledge that the Director disapproved--disapproved and yet had been
betrayed into doing the forbidden thing. Under what inward compulsion?
Through his discomfort Bernard eagerly listened.

'I had the same idea as you,' the Director was saying. 'Wanted to have a
look at the savages. Got a permit for New Mexico and went there for my
summer holiday. With the girl I was having at the moment. She was a
Beta-Minus, and I think' (he shut his eyes). 'I think she had yellow
hair. Anyhow, she was pneumatic, particularly pneumatic; I remember
that. Well, we went there, and we looked at the sav