nsisted on the low squalor, the nauseous ugliness of the nightmare.
Now, suddenly, they trumpeted a call to arms. 'O brave new world!'
Miranda was proclaiming the possibility of loveliness, the possibility
of transforming even the nightmare into something fine and noble. 'O
brave new world!' It was a challenge, a command.

'No shoving there, now!' shouted the Deputy Sub-Bursar in a fury. He
slammed down the lid of his cash-box. 'I shall stop the distribution
unless I have good behaviour.'

The Deltas muttered, jostled one another a little, and then were still.
The threat had been effective. Deprivation of _soma_--appalling thought!

'That's better' said the young man, and reopened his cash-box.

Linda had been a slave, Linda had died; others should live in freedom,
and the world be made beautiful. A reparation, a duty. And suddenly it
was luminously clear to the Savage what he must do; it was as though a
shutter had been opened, a curtain drawn back.

'Now,' said the Deputy-Bursar.

Another khaki female stepped forward.

'Stop!' called the Savage in a loud and ringing voice. 'Stop!'

He pushed his way to the table; the Deltas stared at him with
astonishment.

'Ford!' said the Deputy Sub-Bursar, below his breath. 'It's the Savage.'
He felt scared.

'Listen, I beg you,' cried the Savage earnestly. 'Lend me your
ears...' He had never spoken in public before, and found it very
difficult to express what he wanted to say. 'Don't take that horrible
stuff. It's poison, it's poison.'

'I say, Mr. Savage,' said the Deputy Sub-Bursar, smiling propitiatingly.
'Would you mind letting me...'

'Poison to soul as well as body.'

'Yes, but let me get on with my distribution, won't you? There's a good
fellow.' With the cautious tenderness of one who strokes a notoriously
vicious animal, he patted the Savage's arm. 'Just let me...'

'Never!' cried the Savage.

'But look here, old man...'

'Throw it all away, that horrible poison.'

The words 'Throw it all away' pierced through the enfolding layers of
incomprehension to the quick of the Deltas' consciousness. An angry
murmur went up from the crowd.

'I come to bring you freedom,' said the Savage, turning back towards the
twins. 'I come...'

The Deputy Sub-Bursar heard no more; he had slipped out of the vestibule
and was looking up a number in the telephone book.

****

'Not in his own rooms,' Bernard summed up. 'Not in mine, not in yours.
Not at the Aphroditæum; not at the Centre or the College. Where can he
have got to?'

Helmholtz shrugged his shoulders. They had come back from their work
expecting to find the Savage waiting for them at one or other of their
usual meeting-places, and there was no sign of the fellow. Which was
annoying, as they had meant to nip across to Biarritz in Helmholtz's
four-seater sporticopter. They'd be late for dinner if he didn't come
soon.

'We'll give him five more minutes,' said Helmholtz. 'If he doesn't turn
up by then, we'll...'

The ringing of the telephone bell interrupted him. He picked up the
receiver. 'Hullo. Speaking.' Then, after a long interval of listening,
'Ford in Flivver!' he swore. 'I'll come at once.'

'What is it?' Bernard asked.

'A fellow I know at the Park Lane Hospital,' said Helmholtz. 'The Savage
is there. Seems to have gone mad. Anyhow, it's urgent. Will you come
with me?'

Together they hurried along the corridor to the lifts.

****

'But do you like being slaves?' the Savage was saying as they entered
the Hospital. His face was flushed, his eyes bright with ardour and
indignation. 'Do you like being babies? Yes, babies. Mewling and
puking,' he added, exasperated by their bestial stupidity into throwing
insults at those he had come to save. The insults bounced off their
carapace of thick stupidity; they stared at him with a blank expression
of dull and sullen resentment in their eyes. 'Yes, puking!' he fairly
shouted. Grief and remorse, compassion and duty--all were forgotten now
and, as it were, absorbed into an intense overpowering hatred of these
less than human monsters. 'Don't you want to be free and men? Don't you
even understa