low par.' Again he rubbed his
hands.

'But why do you want to keep the embryo below par?' asked an ingenuous
student.

'Ass!' said the Director, breaking a long silence. 'Hasn't it occurred
to you that an Epsilon embryo must have an Epsilon environment as well
as an Epsilon heredity?'

It evidently hadn't occurred to him. He was covered with confusion.

'The lower the caste,' said Mr. Foster, 'the shorter the oxygen.' The
first organ affected was the brain. After that the skeleton. At seventy
per cent. of normal oxygen you got dwarfs. At less than seventy, eyeless
monsters.

'Who are no use at all,' concluded Mr. Foster.

Whereas (his voice became confidential and eager), if they could
discover a technique for shortening the period of maturation what a
triumph, what a benefaction to Society!

'Consider the horse.'

They considered it.

Mature at six; the elephant at ten. While at thirteen a man is not yet
sexually mature; and is only full grown at twenty. Hence, of course,
that fruit of delayed development, the human intelligence.

'But in Epsilons,' said Mr. Foster very justly, 'we don't need human
intelligence.'

Didn't need and didn't get it. But though the Epsilon mind was mature at
ten, the Epsilon body was not fit to work till eighteen. Long years of
superfluous and wasted immaturity. If the physical development could be
speeded up till it was as quick, say, as a cow's, what an enormous
saving to the Community!

'Enormous!' murmured the students. Mr. Foster's enthusiasm was
infectious.

He became rather technical; spoke of the abnormal endocrine
co-ordination which made men grow so slowly; postulated a germinal
mutation to account for it. Could the effects of this germinal mutation
be undone? Could the individual Epsilon embryo be made to revert, by a
suitable technique, to the normality of dogs and cows? That was the
problem. And it was all but solved.

Pilkington, at Mombasa, had produced individuals who were sexually
mature at four and full grown at six and a half. A scientific triumph.
But socially useless. Six-year-old men and women were too stupid to do
even Epsilon work. And the process was an all-or-nothing one; either you
failed to modify at all, or else you modified the whole way. They were
still trying to find the ideal compromise between adults of twenty and
adults of six. So far without success. Mr. Foster sighed and shook his
head.

Their wanderings through the crimson twilight had brought them to the
neighbourhood of Metre 170 on Rack 9. From this point onwards Rack 9 was
enclosed and the bottles performed the remainder of their journey in a
kind of tunnel, interrupted here and there by openings two or three
metres wide.

'Heat conditioning,' said Mr. Foster.

Hot tunnels alternated with cool tunnels. Coolness was wedded to
discomfort in the form of hard X-rays. By the time they were decanted
the embryos had a horror of cold. They were predestined to emigrate to
the tropics, to be miners and acetate silk spinners and steel workers.
Later on their minds would be made to endorse the judgment of their
bodies. 'We condition them to thrive on heat,' concluded Mr. Foster.
'Our colleagues upstairs will teach them to love it.'

'And that,' put in the Director sententiously, 'that is the secret of
happiness and virtue--liking what you've _got_ to do. All conditioning
aims at that: making people like their unescapable social destiny.'

In a gap between two tunnels, a nurse was delicately probing with a long
fine syringe into the gelatinous contents of a passing bottle. The
students and their guides stood watching her for a few moments in
silence.

'Well, Lenina,' said Mr. Foster, when at last she withdrew the syringe
and straightened herself up.

The girl turned with a start. One could see that, for all the lupus and
the purple eyes, she was uncommonly pretty.

'Henry!' Her smile flashed redly at him--a row of coral teeth.

'Charming, charming,' murmured the Director and, giving her two or three
little pats, received in exchange a rather deferential smile for
himself.

'What are you giving them?' asked Mr. Fos