ying for it, Mr.
Watson--paying because you happen to be too much interested in beauty. I
was too much interested in truth; I paid too.'

'But _you_ didn't go to an island,' said the Savage, breaking a long
silence.

The Controller smiled. 'That's how I paid. By choosing to serve
happiness. Other people's--not mine. It's lucky,' he added, after a
pause, 'that there are such a lot of islands in the world. I don't know
what we should do without them. Put you all in the lethal chamber, I
suppose. By the way, Mr. Watson, would you like a tropical climate? The
Marquesas, for example; or Samoa? Or something rather more bracing?'

Helmholtz rose from his pneumatic chair. 'I should like a thoroughly bad
climate,' he answered. 'I believe one would write better if the climate
were bad. If there were a lot of wind and storms, for example...'

The Controller nodded his approbation. 'I like your spirit, Mr. Watson.
I like it very much indeed. As much as I officially disapprove of it.'
He smiled. 'What about the Falkland Islands?'

'Yes, I think that will do,' Helmholtz answered. 'And now, if you don't
mind, I'll go and see how poor Bernard's getting on.'




                              Chapter XVII




'Art, science--you seem to have paid a fairly high price for your
happiness,' said the Savage, when they were alone. 'Anything else?'

'Well, religion, of course,' replied the Controller. 'There used to be
something called God--before the Nine Years' War. But I was forgetting;
you know all about God, I suppose.'

'Well...' The Savage hesitated. He would have liked to say something
about solitude, about night, about the mesa lying pale under the moon,
about the precipice, the plunge into shadowy darkness, about death. He
would have liked to speak; but there were no words. Not even in
Shakespeare.

The Controller, meanwhile, had crossed to the other side of the room and
was unlocking a large safe let into the wall between the bookshelves.
The heavy door swung open. Rummaging in the darkness within, 'It's a
subject,' he said, 'that has always had a great interest for me.' He
pulled out a thick black volume. 'You've never read this, for example.'

The Savage took it. '_The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New
Testaments_,' he read aloud from the title-page.

'Nor this.' It was a small book and had lost its cover.

'_The Imitation of Christ._'

'Nor this.' He handed out another volume.

'_The Varieties of Religious Experience._ By William James.'

'And I've got plenty more,' Mustapha Mond continued, resuming his seat.
'A whole collection of pornographic old books. God in the safe and Ford
on the shelves.' He pointed with a laugh to his avowed library--to the
shelves of books, the racks full of reading-machine bobbins and
sound-track rolls.

'But if you know about God, why don't you tell them?' asked the Savage
indignantly. 'Why don't you give them these books about God?'

'For the same reason as we don't give them _Othello_: they're old;
they're about God hundreds of years ago. Not about God now.'

'But God doesn't change.'

'Men do, though.'

'What difference does that make?'

'All the difference in the world,' said Mustapha Mond. He got up again
and walked to the safe. 'There was a man called Cardinal Newman,' he
said. 'A cardinal,' he exclaimed parenthetically, 'was a kind of
Arch-Community-Songster.'

'"I, Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal." I've read about them in
Shakespeare.'

'Of course you have. Well, as I was saying, there was a man called
Cardinal Newman. Ah, here's the book.' He pulled it out. 'And while I'm
about it I'll take this one too. It's by a man called Maine de Biran. He
was a philosopher, if you know what that was.'

'A man who dreams of fewer things than there are in heaven and earth,'
said the Savage promptly.

'Quite so. I'll read you one of the things he _did_ dream of in a
moment. Meanwhile, listen to what this old Arch-Community-Songster
said.' He opened the book at the place marked by a slip of paper and
began to read. '"We are not our own any more than what we possess is our
own. We did not make ourselves, w