.' Lenina remembered
her first shock of fear and surprise; her speculations through half a
wakeful hour; and then, under the influence of those endless
repetitions, the gradual soothing of her mind, the soothing, the
smoothing, the stealthy creeping of sleep....

'I suppose Epsilons don't really mind being Epsilons,' she said aloud.

'Of course they don't. How can they? They don't know what it's like
being anything else. We'd mind, of course. But then we've been
differently conditioned. Besides, we start with a different heredity.'

'I'm glad I'm not an Epsilon,' said Lenina, with conviction.

'And if you were an Epsilon,' said Henry, 'your conditioning would have
made you no less thankful that you weren't a Beta or an Alpha.' He put
his forward propeller into gear and headed the machine towards London.
Behind them, in the west, the crimson and orange were almost faded; a
dark bank of cloud had crept into the zenith. As they flew over the
Crematorium, the plane shot upwards on the column of hot air rising from
the chimneys, only to fall as suddenly when it passed into the
descending chill beyond.

'What a marvellous switchback!' Lenina laughed delightedly.

But Henry's tone was almost, for a moment, melancholy. 'Do you know what
that switchback was?' he said. 'It was some human being finally and
definitely disappearing. Going up in a squirt of hot gas. It would be
curious to know who it was--a man or a woman, an Alpha or an
Epsilon....' He sighed. Then, in a resolutely cheerful voice,
'Anyhow,' he concluded, 'there's one thing we can be certain of; whoever
he may have been, he was happy when he was alive. Everybody's happy
now.'

'Yes, everybody's happy now,' echoed Lenina. They had heard the words
repeated a hundred and fifty times every night for twelve years.

Landing on the roof of Henry's forty-story apartment house in
Westminster, they went straight down to the dining-hall. There, in a
loud and cheerful company, they ate an excellent meal. _Soma_ was served
with the coffee. Lenina took two half-gramme tablets and Henry three. At
twenty past nine they walked across the street to the newly opened
Westminster Abbey Cabaret. It was a night almost without clouds,
moonless and starry; but of this on the whole depressing fact Lenina and
Henry were fortunately unaware. The electric sky-signs effectively shut
off the outer darkness. '=Calvin Stopes and his Sixteen
Sexophonists.=' From the façade of the new Abbey the giant letters
invitingly glared. '=London's Finest Scent and Colour Organ. All
the Latest Synthetic Music.='

They entered. The air seemed hot and somehow breathless with the scent
of ambergris and sandalwood. On the domed ceiling of the hall, the
colour organ had momentarily painted a tropical sunset. The Sixteen
Sexophonists were playing an old favourite: 'There ain't no Bottle in
all the world like that dear little Bottle of mine.' Four hundred
couples were five-stepping round the polished floor. Lenina and Henry
were soon the four hundred and first. The sexophones wailed like
melodious cats under the moon, moaned in the alto and tenor registers as
though the little death were upon them. Rich with a wealth of harmonics,
their tremulous chorus mounted towards a climax, louder and ever
louder--until at last, with a wave of his hand, the conductor let loose
the final shattering note of ethermusic and blew the sixteen merely
human blowers clean out of existence. Thunder in A flat major. And then,
in all but silence, in all but darkness, there followed a gradual
deturgescence, a _diminuendo_ sliding gradually, through quarter tones,
down, down to a faintly whispered dominant chord that lingered on (while
the five-four rhythms still pulsed below) charging the darkened seconds
with an intense expectancy. And at last expectancy was fulfilled. There
was a sudden explosive sunrise, and simultaneously, the Sixteen burst
into song:

              Bottle of mine, it's you I've always wanted!
              Bottle of mine, why was I ever decanted?
                Skies are blue inside of you,
                The weather's a