lpitating labyrinth,
that led (by what beautifully inevitable windings) to a bright centre of
absolute conviction; where the dancing images of the television box were
the performers in some indescribably delicious all-singing feely; where
the dripping patchouli was more than scent--was the sun, was a million
sexophones, was Popé making love, only much more so, incomparably more,
and without end.

'No, we can't rejuvenate. But I'm very glad,' Dr. Shaw had concluded,
'to have had this opportunity to see an example of senility in a human
being. Thank you so much for calling me in.' He shook Bernard warmly by
the hand.

It was John, then, they were all after. And as it was only through
Bernard, his accredited guardian, that John could be seen, Bernard now
found himself, for the first time in his life, treated not merely
normally, but as a person of outstanding importance. There was no more
talk of the alcohol in his blood-surrogate, no gibes at his personal
appearance. Henry Foster went out of his way to be friendly; Benito
Hoover made him a present of six packets of sex-hormone chewing-gum; the
Assistant Predestinator came and cadged almost abjectly for an
invitation to one of Bernard's evening parties. As for the women,
Bernard had only to hint at the possibility of an invitation, and he
could have whichever of them he liked.

'Bernard's asked me to meet the Savage next Wednesday,' Fanny announced
triumphantly.

'I'm so glad,' said Lenina. 'And now you must admit that you were wrong
about Bernard. Don't you think he's really rather sweet?'

Fanny nodded. 'And I must say,' she said, 'I was quite agreeably
surprised.'

The Chief Bottler, the Director of Predestination, three Deputy
Assistant Fertilizer-Generals, the Professor of Feelies in the College
of Emotional Engineering, the Dean of the Westminster Community Singery,
the Supervisor of Bokanovskification--the list of Bernard's notabilities
was interminable.

'And I had six girls last week,' he confided to Helmholtz Watson. 'One
on Monday, two on Tuesday, two more on Friday, and one on Saturday. And
if I'd had the time or the inclination, there were at least a dozen more
who were only too anxious...'

Helmholtz listened to his boastings in a silence so gloomily
disapproving that Bernard was offended.

'You're envious,' he said.

Helmholtz shook his head. 'I'm rather sad, that's all,' he answered.

Bernard went off in a huff. Never, he told himself, never would he speak
to Helmholtz again.

The days passed. Success went fizzily to Bernard's head, and in the
process completely reconciled him (as any good intoxicant should do) to
a world which, up till then, he had found very unsatisfactory. In so far
as it recognized him as important, the order of things was good. But,
reconciled by his success, he yet refused to forgo the privilege of
criticizing this order. For the act of criticizing heightened his sense
of importance, made him feel larger. Moreover, he did genuinely believe
that there were things to criticize. (At the same time, he genuinely
liked being a success and having all the girls he wanted.) Before those
who now, for the sake of the Savage, paid their court to him, Bernard
would parade a carping unorthodoxy. He was politely listened to. But
behind his back people shook their heads. 'That young man will come to a
bad end,' they said, prophesying the more confidently in that they
themselves would in due course personally see to it that the end was
bad. 'He won't find another Savage to help him out a second time,' they
said. Meanwhile, however, there was the first Savage; they were polite.
And because they were polite, Bernard felt positively gigantic--gigantic
and at the same time light with elation, lighter than air.

****

'Lighter than air,' said Bernard, pointing upwards.

Like a pearl in the sky, high, high above them, the Weather Department's
captive balloon shone rosily in the sunshine.

'...the said Savage,' so ran Bernard's instructions, 'to be shown
civilized life in all its aspects....'

He was being shown a bird's-eye view of it at present, a bird's-ey