in
with funny old Benito. At least Benito was normal. Whereas Bernard...

'Alcohol in his blood-surrogate,' was Fanny's explanation of every
eccentricity. But Henry, with whom, one evening when they were in bed
together, Lenina had rather anxiously discussed her new lover, Henry had
compared poor Bernard to a rhinoceros.

'You can't teach a rhinoceros tricks,' he had explained in his brief and
vigorous style. 'Some men are almost rhinoceroses; they don't respond
properly to conditioning. Poor devils! Bernard's one of them. Luckily
for him, he's pretty good at his job. Otherwise the Director would never
have kept him. 'However,' he added consolingly, 'I think he's pretty
harmless.'

Pretty harmless, perhaps; but also pretty disquieting. That mania, to
start with, for doing things in private. Which meant, in practice, not
doing anything at all. For what was there that one _could_ do in
private. (Apart, of course, from going to bed: but one couldn't do that
all the time.) Yes, what _was_ there? Precious little. The first
afternoon they went out together was particularly fine. Lenina had
suggested a swim at the Torquay Country Club followed by dinner at the
Oxford Union. But Bernard thought there would be too much of a crowd.
Then what about a round of Electro-magnetic Golf at St. Andrews? But
again, no: Bernard considered that Electro-magnetic Golf was a waste of
time.

'Then what's time for?' asked Lenina in some astonishment.

Apparently, for going walks in the Lake District; for that was what he
now proposed. Land on the top of Skiddaw and walk for a couple of hours
in the heather. 'Alone with you, Lenina.'

'But, Bernard, we shall be alone all night.'

Bernard blushed and looked away. 'I meant, alone for talking,' he
mumbled.

'Talking? But what about?' Walking and talking--that seemed a very odd
way of spending an afternoon.

In the end she persuaded him, much against his will, to fly over to
Amsterdam to see the Semi-Demi-Finals of the Women's Heavyweight
Wrestling Championship.

'In a crowd,' he grumbled. 'As usual.' He remained obstinately gloomy
the whole afternoon; wouldn't talk to Lenina's friends (of whom they met
dozens in the ice-cream _soma_ bar between the wrestling bouts); and in
spite of his misery absolutely refused to take the half-gramme raspberry
sundae which she pressed upon him. 'I'd rather be myself,' he said.
'Myself and nasty. Not somebody else, however jolly.'

'A gramme in time saves nine,' said Lenina, producing a bright treasure
of sleep-taught wisdom.

Bernard pushed away the proffered glass impatiently.

'Now don't lose your temper,' she said. 'Remember, one cubic centimetre
cures ten gloomy sentiments.'

'Oh, for Ford's sake, be quiet!' he shouted.

Lenina shrugged her shoulders. 'A gramme is always better than a damn,'
she concluded with dignity, and drank the sundae herself.

On their way back across the Channel, Bernard insisted on stopping his
propeller and hovering on his helicopter screws within a hundred feet of
the waves. The weather had taken a change for the worse; a
south-westerly wind had sprung up, the sky was cloudy.

'Look,' he commanded.

'But it's horrible,' said Lenina, shrinking back from the window. She
was appalled by the rushing emptiness of the night, by the black
foam-flecked water heaving beneath them, by the pale face of the moon,
so haggard and distracted among the hastening clouds. 'Let's turn on the
radio. Quick!' She reached for the dialling knob on the dash-board and
turned it at random.

'...skies are blue inside of you,' sang sixteen tremoloing falsettos,
'the weather's always...'

Then a hiccough and silence. Bernard had switched off the current.

'I want to look at the sea in peace,' he said. 'One can't even look with
that beastly noise going on.'

'But it's lovely. And I don't want to look.'

'But I do,' he insisted. 'It makes me feel as though...' he
hesitated, searching for words with which to express himself, 'as though
I were more _me_, if you see what I mean. More on my own, not so
completely a part of something else. Not just a cell in the social bo