 lift. The others looked round
curiously. 'I wanted to talk to you about our New Mexico plan.' Out of
the tail of her eye she could see Benito Hoover gaping with
astonishment. The gape annoyed her. 'Surprised I shouldn't be begging to
go with _him_ again!' she said to herself. Then aloud, and more warmly
than ever, 'I'd simply _love_ to come with you for a week in July,' she
went on. (Anyhow, she was publicly proving her unfaithfulness to Henry.
Fanny ought to be pleased, even though it was Bernard.) 'That is,'
Lenina gave him her most deliciously significant smile, 'if you still
want to have me.'

Bernard's pale face flushed. 'What on earth for?' she wondered,
astonished, but at the same time touched by this strange tribute to her
power.

'Hadn't we better talk about it somewhere else?' he stammered, looking
horribly uncomfortable.

'As though I'd been saying something shocking,' thought Lenina. 'He
couldn't look more upset if I'd made a dirty joke--asked him who his
mother was, or something like that.'

'I mean, with all these people about...' He was choked with
confusion.

Lenina's laugh was frank and wholly unmalicious. 'How funny you are!'
she said; and she quite genuinely did think him funny. 'You'll give me
at least a week's warning, won't you,' she went on in another tone. 'I
suppose we take the Blue Pacific Rocket? Does it start from the
Charing-T Tower? Or is it from Hampstead?'

Before Bernard could answer, the lift came to a standstill.

'Roof!' called a creaking voice.

The liftman was a small simian creature, dressed in the black tunic of
an Epsilon-Minus Semi-Moron.

'Roof!'

He flung open the gates. The warm glory of afternoon sunlight made him
start and blink his eyes. 'Oh, roof!' he repeated in a voice of rapture.
He was as though suddenly and joyfully awakened from a dark annihilating
stupor. 'Roof!'

He smiled up with a kind of doggily expectant adoration into the faces
of his passengers. Talking and laughing together, they stepped out into
the light. The liftman looked after them.

'Roof?' he said once more, questioningly.

Then a bell rang, and from the ceiling of the lift a loud-speaker began,
very softly and yet very imperiously, to issue its commands.

'Go down,' it said, 'go down. Floor Eighteen. Go down, go down. Floor
Eighteen. Go down, go...'

The liftman slammed the gates, touched a button and instantly dropped
back into the droning twilight of the well, the twilight of his own
habitual stupor.

It was warm and bright on the roof. The summer afternoon was drowsy with
the hum of passing helicopters; and the deeper drone of the
rocket-planes hastening, invisible, through the bright sky five or six
miles overhead was like a caress on the soft air. Bernard Marx drew a
deep breath. He looked up into the sky and round the blue horizon and
finally down into Lenina's face.

'Isn't it beautiful!' His voice trembled a little.

She smiled at him with an expression of the most sympathetic
understanding. 'Simply perfect for Obstacle Golf,' she answered
rapturously. 'And now I must fly, Bernard. Henry gets cross if I keep
him waiting. Let me know in good time about the date.' And waving her
hand, she ran away across the wide flat roof towards the hangars.
Bernard stood watching the retreating twinkle of the white stockings,
the sunburnt knees vivaciously bending and unbending, again, again, and
the softer rolling of those well-fitted corduroy shorts beneath the
bottle-green jacket. His face wore an expression of pain.

'I should say she was pretty,' said a loud and cheery voice just behind
him.

Bernard started, and looked round. The chubby red face of Benito Hoover
was beaming down at him--beaming with manifest cordiality. Benito was
notoriously good-natured. People said of him that he could have got
through life without ever touching _soma_. The malice and bad tempers
from which other people had to take holidays never afflicted him.
Reality for Benito was always sunny.

'Pneumatic too. And how!' Then, in another tone, 'But, I say,' he went
on, 'you do look glum! What you need is a gramme of _soma_.' Div