'

'Push them through the ventilator over the door.'

He did what she suggested and returned to his uneasy pacing of the room.
'Impudent strumpet, impudent strumpet. The devil Luxury with his fat
rump and potato finger...'

'John.'

He would not answer. 'Fat rump and potato finger.'

'John.'

'What is it?' he asked gruffly.

'I wonder if you'd mind giving me my Malthusian belt.'

Lenina sat listening to the footsteps in the other room, wondering, as
she listened, how long he was likely to go tramping up and down like
that; whether she would have to wait until he left the flat; or if it
would be safe, after allowing his madness a reasonable time to subside,
to open the bathroom door and make a dash for it.

She was interrupted in the midst of these uneasy speculations by the
sound of the telephone bell ringing in the other room. Abruptly the
tramping ceased. She heard the voice of the Savage parleying with
silence.

'Hullo.'

......

'Yes.'

......

'If I do not usurp myself, I am.'

......

'Yes, didn't you hear me say so? Mr. Savage speaking.'

......

'What? Who's ill? Of course it interests me.'

......

'But is it serious? Is she really bad? I'll go at once....'

......

'Not in her rooms any more? Where has she been taken?'

......

'Oh, my God! What's the address?'

......

'Three Park Lane--is that it? Three? Thanks.'

Lenina heard the click of the replaced receiver, then hurrying steps. A
door slammed. There was silence. Was he really gone?

With an infinity of precautions she opened the door a quarter of an
inch; peeped through the crack; was encouraged by the view of emptiness;
opened a little further, and put her whole head out; finally tiptoed
into the room; stood for a few seconds with strongly beating heart,
listening, listening; then darted to the front door, opened, slipped
through, slammed, ran. It was not till she was in the lift and actually
dropping down the well that she began to feel herself secure.




                              Chapter XIV




The Park Lane Hospital for the Dying was a sixty-story tower of primrose
tiles. As the Savage stepped out of his taxicopter a convoy of
gaily-coloured aerial hearses rose whirring from the roof and darted
away across the Park, westwards, bound for the Slough Crematorium. At
the lift gates the presiding porter gave him the information he
required, and he dropped down to Ward 81 (a Galloping Senility ward, the
porter explained) on the seventeenth floor.

It was a large room bright with sunshine and yellow paint, and
containing twenty beds, all occupied. Linda was dying in company--in
company and with all the modern conveniences. The air was continuously
alive with gay synthetic melodies. At the foot of every bed, confronting
its moribund occupant, was a television box. Television was left on, a
running tap, from morning till night. Every quarter of an hour the
prevailing perfume of the room was automatically changed. 'We try,'
explained the nurse, who had taken charge of the Savage at the door, 'we
try to create a thoroughly pleasant atmosphere here--something between a
first-class hotel and a feely-palace, if you take my meaning.'

'Where is she?' asked the Savage, ignoring these polite explanations.

The nurse was offended. 'You _are_ in a hurry,' she said.

'Is there any hope?' he asked.

'You mean, of her not dying?' (He nodded.) 'No, of course there isn't.
When somebody's sent here, there's no...' Startled by the expression
of distress on his pale face, she suddenly broke off. 'Why, whatever is
the matter?' she asked. She was not accustomed to this kind of thing in
visitors. (Not that there were many visitors anyhow: or any reason why
there should be many visitors.) 'You're not feeling ill, are you?'

He shook his head. 'She's my mother,' he said in a scarcely audible
voice.

The nurse glanced at him with startled, horrified eyes; then quickly
looked away. From throat to temple she was all one hot blush.

'Take me to her,' said the Savage, making an effort to speak in an
ordinary tone.

Still blushing, she led the way down the ward. Faces still fresh a