hem from those horrible emotions, they wouldn't have
anything to do with them.'

****

'Talking about her as though she were a bit of meat.' Bernard ground his
teeth. 'Have her here, have her there. Like mutton. Degrading her to so
much mutton. She said she'd think it over, she said she'd give me an
answer this week. Oh, Ford, Ford, Ford.' He would have liked to go up to
them and hit them in the face--hard, again and again.

'Yes, I really do advise you to try her,' Henry Foster was saying.

****

'Take Ectogenesis. Pfitzner and Kawaguchi had got the whole technique
worked out. But would the Governments look at it? No. There was
something called Christianity. Women were forced to go on being
viviparous.'

****

'He's so ugly!' said Fanny.

'But I rather like his looks.'

'And then so _small_' Fanny made a grimace; smallness was so horribly
and typically low-caste.

'I think that's rather sweet,' said Lenina. 'One feels one would like to
pet him. You know. Like a cat.'

Fanny was shocked. 'They say somebody made a mistake when he was still
in the bottle--thought he was a Gamma and put alcohol into his
blood-surrogate. That's why he's so stunted.'

'What nonsense!' Lenina was indignant.

****

'Sleep teaching was actually prohibited in England. There was something
called liberalism. Parliament, if you know what that was, passed a law
against it. The records survive. Speeches about liberty of the subject.
Liberty to be inefficient and miserable. Freedom to be a round peg in a
square hole.'

****

'But, my dear chap, you're welcome, I assure you. You're welcome.' Henry
Foster patted the Assistant Predestinator on the shoulder. 'Every one
belongs to every one else, after all.'

One hundred repetitions three nights a week for four years, thought
Bernard Marx, who was a specialist on hypnopædia. Sixty-two thousand
four hundred repetitions make one truth. Idiots!

****

'Or the Caste System. Constantly proposed, constantly rejected. There
was something called democracy. As though men were more than
physico-chemically equal.'

****

'Well, all I can say is that I'm going to accept his invitation.'

****

Bernard hated them, hated them. But they were two, they were large, they
were strong.

****

'The Nine Years' War began in A.F. 141.'

****

'Not even if it _were_ true about the alcohol in his blood-surrogate.'

****

'Phosgene, chloropicrin, ethyl iodoacetate, diphenylcyanarsine,
trichlormethyl chloroformate, dichlorethyl sulphide. Not to mention
hydrocyanic acid.'

****

'Which I simply don't believe,' Lenina concluded.

****

'The noise of fourteen thousand aeroplanes advancing in open order. But
in the Kurfürstendamm and the Eighth Arrondissement, the explosion of
the anthrax bombs is hardly louder than the popping of a paper bag.'

****

'Because I _do_ want to see a Savage Reservation.'

****

CH3C6H2(NO2)3+Hg(CNO)2=well, what? An enormous hole in the ground,
a pile of masonry, some bits of flesh and mucus, a foot, with the boot
still on it, flying through the air and landing, flop, in the middle
of the geraniums--the scarlet ones; such a splendid show that summer!

****

'You're hopeless, Lenina, I give you up.'

****

'The Russian technique for infecting water supplies was particularly
ingenious.'

****

Back turned to back, Fanny and Lenina continued their changing in
silence.

****

'The Nine Years' War, the great Economic Collapse. There was a choice
between World Control and destruction. Between stability and...'

****

'Fanny Crowne's a nice girl too,' said the Assistant Predestinator.

****

In the nurseries, the Elementary Class Consciousness lesson was over,
the voices were adapting future demand to future industrial supply. 'I
do love flying,' they whispered, 'I do love flying, I do love having new
clothes, I do love...'

****

'Liberalism, of course, was dead of anthrax, but all the same you
couldn't do things by force.'

****

'Not nearly so pneumatic as Lenina. Oh, not nearly.'

****

'But old clothes are beastly,' continued the untiring whisper. 'We
always throw away old clothes. Ending is better than mendin