e sort of general idea they must have, if they were to do
their work intelligently--though as little of one, if they were to be
good and happy members of society, as possible. For particulars, as
every one knows, make for virtue and happiness; generalities are
intellectually necessary evils. Not philosophers, but fret-sawyers and
stamp collectors compose the backbone of society.

'To-morrow,' he would add, smiling at them with a slightly menacing
geniality, 'you'll be settling down to serious work. You won't have time
for generalities. Meanwhile...'

Meanwhile, it was a privilege. Straight from the horse's mouth into the
note-book. The boys scribbled like mad.

Tall and rather thin but upright, the Director advanced into the room.
He had a long chin and big, rather prominent teeth, just covered, when
he was not talking, by his full, floridly curved lips. Old, young?
Thirty? fifty? fifty-five? It was hard to say. And anyhow the question
didn't arise; in this year of stability, A.F. 632, it didn't occur to
you to ask it.

'I shall begin at the beginning,' said the D.H.C., and the more zealous
students recorded his intention in their note-books: _Begin at the
beginning_. 'These,' he waved his hand, 'are the incubators.' And
opening an insulated door he showed them racks upon racks of numbered
test-tubes. 'The week's supply of ova. Kept,' he explained, 'at blood
heat; whereas the male gametes,' and here he opened another door, 'they
have to be kept at thirty-five instead of thirty-seven. Full blood heat
sterilizes.' Rams wrapped in thermogene beget no lambs.

Still leaning against the incubators he gave them, while the pencils
scurried illegibly across the pages, a brief description of the modern
fertilizing process; spoke first, of course, of its surgical
introduction--'the operation undergone voluntarily for the good of
Society, not to mention the fact that it carries a bonus amounting to
six months' salary'; continued with some account of the technique for
preserving the excised ovary alive and actively developing; passed on to
a consideration of optimum temperature, salinity, viscosity; referred to
the liquor in which the detached and ripened eggs were kept; and,
leading his charges to the work tables, actually showed them how this
liquor was drawn off from the test-tubes; how it was let out drop by
drop on to the specially warmed slides of the microscopes; how the eggs
which it contained were inspected for abnormalities, counted and
transferred to a porous receptacle; how (and he now took them to watch
the operation) this receptacle was immersed in a warm bouillon
containing free-swimming spermatozoa--at a minimum concentration of one
hundred thousand per cubic centimetre, he insisted; and how, after ten
minutes, the container was lifted out of the liquor and its contents
re-examined; how, if any of the eggs remained unfertilized, it was again
immersed, and, if necessary, yet again; how the fertilized ova went back
to the incubators; where the Alphas and Betas remained until definitely
bottled; while the Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons were brought out again,
after only thirty-six hours, to undergo Bokanovsky's Process.

'Bokanovsky's Process,' repeated the Director, and the students
underlined the words in their little note-books.

One egg, one embryo, one adult--normality. But a bokanovskified egg will
bud, will proliferate, will divide. From eight to ninety-six buds, and
every bud will grow into a perfectly formed embryo, and every embryo
into a full-sized adult. Making ninety-six human beings grow where only
one grew before. Progress.

'Essentially,' the D.H.C. concluded, 'bokanovskification consists of a
series of arrests of development. We check the normal growth and,
paradoxically enough, the egg responds by budding.'

_Responds by budding._ The pencils were busy.

He pointed. On a very slowly moving band a rack-full of test-tubes was
entering a large metal box, another rack-full was emerging. Machinery
faintly purred. It took eight minutes for the tubes to go through, he
told them. Eight minutes of hard X-rays being