ing into
his right-hand trouser-pocket, Benito produced a phial. 'One cubic
centimetre cures ten gloomy... But, I say!'

Bernard had suddenly turned and rushed away.

Benito stared after him. 'What can be the matter with the fellow?' he
wondered, and, shaking his head, decided that the story about the
alcohol having been put into the poor chap's blood-surrogate must be
true. 'Touched his brain, I suppose.'

He put away the _soma_ bottle, and taking out a packet of sex-hormone
chewing-gum, stuffed a plug into his cheek and walked slowly away
towards the hangars, ruminating.

Henry Foster had had his machine wheeled out of its lock-up and, when
Lenina arrived, was already seated in the cockpit, waiting.

'Four minutes late,' was all his comment, as she climbed in beside him.
He started the engines and threw the helicopter screws into gear. The
machine shot vertically into the air. Henry accelerated; the humming of
the propeller shrilled from hornet to wasp, from wasp to mosquito; the
speedometer showed that they were rising at the best part of two
kilometres a minute. London diminished beneath them. The huge
table-topped buildings were no more, in a few seconds, than a bed of
geometrical mushrooms sprouting from the green of park and garden. In
the midst of them, thin-stalked, a taller, slenderer fungus, the
Charing-T Tower lifted towards the sky a disk of shining concrete.

Like the vague torsos of fabulous athletes, huge fleshy clouds lolled on
the blue air above their heads. Out of one of them suddenly dropped a
small scarlet insect, buzzing as it fell.

'There's the Red Rocket,' said Henry, 'just come in from New York.'
Looking at his watch, 'Seven minutes behind time,' he added, and shook
his head. 'These Atlantic services--they're really scandalously
unpunctual.'

He took his foot off the accelerator. The humming of the screws overhead
dropped an octave and a half, back through wasp and hornet to
bumble-bee, to cockchafer, to stag-beetle. The upward rush of the
machine slackened off; a moment later they were hanging motionless in
the air. Henry pushed at a lever; there was a click. Slowly at first,
then faster and faster, till it was a circular mist before their eyes,
the propeller in front of them began to revolve. The wind of a
horizontal speed whistled ever more shrilly in the stays. Henry kept his
eye on the revolution-counter; when the needle touched the twelve
hundred mark, he threw the helicopter screws out of gear. The machine
had enough forward momentum to be able to fly on its planes.

Lenina looked down through the window in the floor between her feet.
They were flying over the six kilometre zone of park-land that separated
Central London from its first ring of satellite suburbs. The green was
maggoty with foreshortened life. Forests of Centrifugal Bumble-puppy
towers gleamed between the trees. Near Shepherd's Bush two thousand
Beta-Minus mixed doubles were playing Riemann-surface tennis. A double
row of Escalator Fives Courts lined the main road from Notting Hill to
Willesden. In the Ealing stadium a Delta gymnastic display and community
sing was in progress.

'What a hideous colour khaki is,' remarked Lenina, voicing the
hypnopædic prejudices of her caste.

The buildings of the Hounslow Feely Studio covered seven and a half
hectares. Near them a black and khaki army of labourers was busy
revitrifying the surface of the Great West Road. One of the huge
travelling crucibles was being tapped as they flew over. The molten
stone poured out in a stream of dazzling incandescence across the road;
the asbestos rollers came and went; at the tail of an insulated
watering-cart the steam rose in white clouds.

At Brentford the Television Corporation's factory was like a small town.

'They must be changing the shift,' said Lenina.

Like aphides and ants, the leaf-green Gamma girls, the black Semi-Morons
swarmed round the entrances, or stood in queues to take their places in
the monorail tram-cars. Mulberry-coloured Beta-Minuses came and went
among the crowd. The roof of the main building was alive with the
alighting a