 about as much as an egg
can stand. A few died; of the rest, the least susceptible divided into
two; most put out four buds; some eight; all were returned to the
incubators, where the buds began to develop; then, after two days, were
suddenly chilled, chilled and checked. Two, four, eight, the buds in
their turn budded; and having budded were dosed almost to death with
alcohol; consequently burgeoned again and having budded--bud out of bud
out of bud were thereafter--further arrest being generally fatal--left
to develop in peace. By which time the original egg was in a fair way to
becoming anything from eight to ninety-six embryos--a prodigious
improvement, you will agree, on nature. Identical twins--but not in
piddling twos and threes as in the old viviparous days, when an egg
would sometimes accidentally divide; actually by dozens, by scores at a
time.

'Scores,' the Director repeated and flung out his arms, as though he
were distributing largesse. 'Scores.'

But one of the students was fool enough to ask where the advantage lay.

'My good boy!' The Director wheeled sharply round on him. 'Can't you
see? Can't you see?' He raised a hand; his expression was solemn.
'Bokanovsky's Process is one of the major instruments of social
stability!'

_Major instruments of social stability._

Standard men and women; in uniform batches. The whole of a small factory
staffed with the products of a single bokanovskified egg.

'Ninety-six identical twins working ninety-six identical machines!' The
voice was almost tremulous with enthusiasm. 'You really know where you
are. For the first time in history.' He quoted the planetary motto.
'Community, Identity, Stability.' Grand words. 'If we could bokanovskify
indefinitely the whole problem would be solved.'

Solved by standard Gammas, unvarying Deltas, uniform Epsilons. Millions
of identical twins. The principle of mass production at last applied to
biology.

'But, alas,' the Director shook his head, 'we _can't_ bokanovskify
indefinitely.'

Ninety-six seemed to be the limit; seventy-two a good average. From the
same ovary and with gametes of the same male to manufacture as many
batches of identical twins as possible--that was the best (sadly a
second best) that they could do. And even that was difficult.

'For in nature it takes thirty years for two hundred eggs to reach
maturity. But our business is to stabilize the population at this
moment, here and now. Dribbling out twins over a quarter of a
century--what would be the use of that?'

Obviously, no use at all. But Podsnap's Technique had immensely
accelerated the process of ripening. They could make sure of at least a
hundred and fifty mature eggs within two years. Fertilize and
bokanovskify--in other words, multiply by seventy-two--and you get an
average of nearly eleven thousand brothers and sisters in a hundred and
fifty batches of identical twins, all within two years of the same age.

'And in exceptional cases we can make one ovary yield us over fifteen
thousand adult individuals.'

Beckoning to a fair-haired, ruddy young man who happened to be passing
at the moment, 'Mr. Foster,' he called. The ruddy young man approached.
'Can you tell us the record for a single ovary, Mr. Foster?'

'Sixteen thousand and twelve in this Centre,' Mr. Foster replied without
hesitation. He spoke very quickly, had a vivacious blue eye, and took an
evident pleasure in quoting figures. 'Sixteen thousand and twelve; in
one hundred and eighty-nine batches of identicals. But of course they've
done much better,' he rattled on, 'in some of the tropical Centres.
Singapore has often produced over sixteen thousand five hundred; and
Mombasa has actually touched the seventeen thousand mark. But then they
have unfair advantages. You should see the way a negro ovary responds to
pituitary! It's quite astonishing, when you're used to working with
European material. Still,' he added, with a laugh (but the light of
combat was in his eyes and the lift of his chin was challenging),
'still, we mean to beat them if we can. I'm working on a wonderful
Delta-Minus ovary at this