 a heroic effort, to hold down the mounting pressure of his
hilarity; but 'sweet mother' (in the Savage's tremulous tone of anguish)
and the reference to Tybalt lying dead, but evidently uncremated and
wasting his phosphorus on a dim monument, were too much for him. He
laughed and laughed till the tears streamed down his face--quenchlessly
laughed while, pale with a sense of outrage, the Savage looked at him
over the top of his book and then, as the laughter still continued,
closed it indignantly, got up and, with the gesture of one who removes
his pearl from before swine, locked it away in its drawer.

'And yet,' said Helmholtz when, having recovered breath enough to
apologize, he had mollified the Savage into listening to his
explanations, 'I know quite well that one needs ridiculous, mad
situations like that; one can't write really well about anything else.
Why was that old fellow such a marvellous propaganda technician? Because
he had so many insane, excruciating things to get excited about. You've
got to be hurt and upset; otherwise you can't think of the really good,
penetrating, X-rayish phrases. But fathers and mothers!' He shook his
head. 'You can't expect me to keep a straight face about fathers and
mothers. And who's going to get excited about a boy having a girl or not
having her?' (The Savage winced; but Helmholtz, who was staring
pensively at the floor, saw nothing.) 'No,' he concluded, with a sigh,
'it won't do. We need some other kind of madness and violence. But what?
What? Where can one find it?' He was silent; then, shaking his head, 'I
don't know,' he said at last, 'I don't know.'




                              Chapter XIII




Henry Foster loomed up through the twilight of the Embryo Store.

'Like to come to a feely this evening?'

Lenina shook her head without speaking.

'Going out with some one else?' It interested him to know which of his
friends was being had by which other. 'Is it Benito?' he questioned.

She shook her head again.

Henry detected the weariness in those purple eyes, the pallor beneath
that glaze of lupus, the sadness at the corners of the unsmiling crimson
mouth. 'You're not feeling ill, are you?' he asked, a trifle anxiously,
afraid that she might be suffering from one of the few remaining
infectious diseases.

Yet once more Lenina shook her head.

'Anyhow, you ought to go and see the doctor,' said Henry. 'A doctor a
day keeps the jim-jams away,' he added heartily, driving home his
hypnopædic adage with a clap on the shoulder. 'Perhaps you need a
Pregnancy Substitute,' he suggested. 'Or else an extra-strong V.P.S.
treatment. Sometimes, you know, the standard passion-surrogate isn't
quite...'

'Oh, for Ford's sake,' said Lenina, breaking her stubborn silence, 'shut
up!' And she turned back to her neglected embryos.

A V.P.S. treatment indeed! She would have laughed, if she hadn't been on
the point of crying. As though she hadn't got enough V.P. of her own!
She sighed profoundly as she refilled her syringe. 'John,' she murmured
to herself, 'John...' Then 'My Ford,' she wondered, 'have I given
this one its sleeping-sickness injection, or haven't I?' She simply
couldn't remember. In the end, she decided not to run the risk of
letting it have a second dose, and moved down the line to the next
bottle.

Twenty-two years eight months and four days from that moment, a
promising young Alpha-Minus administrator at Mwanza-Mwanza was to die of
trypanosomiasis--the first case for over half a century. Sighing, Lenina
went on with her work.

An hour later, in the Changing Room, Fanny was energetically protesting.
'But it's absurd to let yourself get into a state like this. Simply
absurd,' she repeated. 'And what about? A man--_one_ man.'

'But he's the one I want.'

'As though there weren't millions of other men in the world.'

'But I don't want them.'

'How can you know till you've tried?'

'I have tried.'

'But how many?' asked Fanny, shrugging her shoulders contemptuously.
'One, two?'

'Dozens. But,' shaking her head, 'it wasn't any good,' she added.

'Well, you must persevere,' said Fann