ur civilization has chosen machinery and medicine and
happiness. That's why I have to keep these books locked up in the safe.
They're smut. People would be shocked if...'

The Savage interrupted him. 'But isn't it _natural_ to feel there's a
God?'

'You might as well ask if it's natural to do up one's trousers with
zippers,' said the Controller sarcastically. 'You remind me of another
of those old fellows called Bradley. He defined philosophy as the
finding of bad reason for what one believes by instinct. As if one
believed anything by instinct! One believes things because one has been
conditioned to believe them. Finding bad reasons for what one believes
for other bad reasons--that's philosophy. People believe in God because
they've been conditioned to believe in God.'

'But all the same,' insisted the Savage, 'it is natural to believe
in God when you're alone--quite alone, in the night, thinking about
death...'

'But people never are alone now,' said Mustapha Mond. 'We make them hate
solitude; and we arrange their lives so that it's almost impossible for
them ever to have it.'

The Savage nodded gloomily. At Malpais he had suffered because they had
shut him out from the communal activities of the pueblo, in civilized
London he was suffering because he could never escape from those
communal activities, never be quietly alone.

'Do you remember that bit in _King Lear_?' said the Savage at last:
'"The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices make instruments to
plague us; the dark and vicious place where thee he got cost him his
eyes," and Edmund answers--you remember, he's wounded, he's dying--"Thou
hast spoken right; 'tis true. The wheel is come full circle; I am here."
What about that, now? Doesn't there seem to be a God managing things,
punishing, rewarding?'

'Well, does there?' questioned the Controller in his turn. 'You can
indulge in any number of pleasant vices with a freemartin and run no
risks of having your eyes put out by your son's mistress. "The wheel is
come full circle; I am here." But where would Edmund be nowadays?
Sitting in a pneumatic chair, with his arm round a girl's waist, sucking
away at his sex-hormone chewing-gum and looking at the feelies. The gods
are just. No doubt. But their code of law is dictated, in the last
resort, by the people who organize society; Providence takes its cue
from men.'

'Are you sure?' asked the Savage. 'Are you quite sure that the Edmund in
that pneumatic chair hasn't been just as heavily punished as the Edmund
who's wounded and bleeding to death? The gods are just. Haven't they
used his pleasant vices as an instrument to degrade him?'

'Degrade him from what position? As a happy, hard-working,
goods-consuming citizen he's perfect. Of course, if you choose some
other standard than ours, then perhaps you might say he was degraded.
But you've got to stick to one set of postulates. You can't play
Electro-magnetic Golf according to the rules of Centrifugal
Bumble-puppy.'

'But value dwells not in particular will,' said the Savage. 'It holds
his estimate and dignity as well wherein 'tis precious of itself as in
the prizer.'

'Come, come,' protested Mustapha Mond, 'that's going rather far, isn't
it?'

'If you allowed yourselves to think of God, you wouldn't allow
yourselves to be degraded by pleasant vices. You'd have a reason for
bearing things patiently, for doing things with courage. I've seen it
with the Indians.'

'I'm sure you have,' said Mustapha Mond. 'But then we aren't Indians.
There isn't any need for a civilized man to bear anything that's
seriously unpleasant. And as for doing things--Ford forbid that he
should get the idea into his head. It would upset the whole social order
if men started doing things on their own.'

'What about self-denial, then? If you had a God, you'd have a reason for
self-denial.'

'But industrial civilization is only possible when there's no
self-denial. Self-indulgence up to the very limits imposed by hygiene
and economics. Otherwise the wheels stop turning.'

'You'd have a reason for chastity!' said the Savage, blushing a little
as he 