e ranks of the crawling babies
came little squeals of excitement, gurgles and twitterings of pleasure.

The Director rubbed his hands. 'Excellent!' he said. 'It might almost
have been done on purpose.'

The swiftest crawlers were already at their goal. Small hands reached
out uncertainly, touched, grasped, unpetaling the transfigured roses,
crumpling the illuminated pages of the books. The Director waited until
all were happily busy. Then, 'Watch carefully,' he said. And, lifting
his hand, he gave the signal.

The Head Nurse, who was standing by a switchboard at the other end of
the room, pressed down a little lever.

There was a violent explosion. Shriller and ever shriller, a siren
shrieked. Alarm bells maddeningly sounded.

The children started, screamed; their faces were distorted with terror.

'And now,' the Director shouted (for the noise was deafening), 'now we
proceed to rub in the lesson with a mild electric shock.'

He waved his hand again, and the Head Nurse pressed a second lever. The
screaming of the babies suddenly changed its tone. There was something
desperate, almost insane, about the sharp spasmodic yelps to which they
now gave utterance. Their little bodies twitched and stiffened; their
limbs moved jerkily as if to the tug of unseen wires.

'We can electrify that whole strip of floor,' bawled the Director in
explanation. 'But that's enough,' he signalled to the nurse.

The explosions ceased, the bells stopped ringing, the shriek of the
siren died down from tone to tone into silence. The stiffly twitching
bodies relaxed, and what had become the sob and yelp of infant maniacs
broadened out once more into a normal howl of ordinary terror.

'Offer them the flowers and the books again.'

The nurses obeyed; but at the approach of the roses, at the mere sight
of those gaily-coloured images of pussy and cock-a-doodle-doo and
baa-baa black sheep, the infants shrank away in horror; the volume of
their howling suddenly increased.

'Observe,' said the Director triumphantly, 'observe.'

Books and loud noises, flowers and electric shocks--already in the
infant mind these couples were compromisingly linked; and after two
hundred repetitions of the same or a similar lesson would be wedded
indissolubly. What man has joined, nature is powerless to put asunder.

'They'll grow up with what the psychologists used to call an
"instinctive" hatred of books and flowers. Reflexes unalterably
conditioned. They'll be safe from books and botany all their lives.' The
Director turned to his nurses. 'Take them away again.'

Still yelling, the khaki babies were loaded on to their dumb-waiters and
wheeled out, leaving behind them the smell of sour milk and a most
welcome silence.

One of the students held up his hand; and though he could see quite well
why you couldn't have lower-caste people wasting the Community's time
over books, and that there was always the risk of their reading
something which might undesirably de-condition one of their reflexes,
yet... well, he couldn't understand about the flowers. Why go to the
trouble of making it psychologically impossible for Deltas to like
flowers?

Patiently the D.H.C. explained. If the children were made to scream at
the sight of a rose, that was on grounds of high economic policy. Not so
very long ago (a century or thereabouts), Gammas, Deltas, even Epsilons,
had been conditioned to like flowers--flowers in particular and wild
nature in general. The idea was to make them want to be going out into
the country at every available opportunity, and so compel them to
consume transport.

'And didn't they consume transport?' asked the student.

'Quite a lot,' the D.H.C. replied. 'But nothing else.'

Primroses and landscapes, he pointed out, have one grave defect: they
are gratuitous. A love of nature keeps no factories busy. It was decided
to abolish the love of nature, at any rate among the lower classes; to
abolish the love of nature, but _not_ the tendency to consume transport.
For of course it was essential that they should keep on going to the
country, even though they hated it. The proble