st, on his shoulders, on his bare
arms. Delicious perfume! He shut his eyes; he rubbed his cheek against
his own powdered arm. Touch of smooth skin against his face, scent in
his nostrils of musky dust--her real presence. 'Lenina,' he whispered.
'Lenina!'

A noise made him start, made him guiltily turn. He crammed up his
thieveries into the suit-case and shut the lid; then listened again,
looked. Not a sign of life, not a sound. And yet he had certainly heard
something--something like a sigh, something like the creak of a board.
He tiptoed to the door and, cautiously opening it, found himself looking
on to a broad landing. On the opposite side of the landing was another
door, ajar. He stepped out, pushed, peeped.

There, on a low bed, the sheet flung back, dressed in a pair of pink
one-piece zippyjamas, lay Lenina, fast asleep and so beautiful in the
midst of her curls, so touchingly childish with her pink toes and her
grave sleeping face, so trustful in the helplessness of her limp hands
and melted limbs, that the tears came to his eyes.

With an infinity of quite unnecessary precautions--for nothing short of
a pisto-shot could have called Lenina back from her _soma_-holiday
before the appointed time--he entered the room, he knelt on the floor
beside the bed. He gazed, he clasped his hands, his lips moved. 'Her
eyes,' he murmured,

          'Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice;
          Handlest in thy discourse, O! that her hand,
          In whose comparison all whites are ink
          Writing their own reproach; to whose soft seizure
          The cygnet's down is harsh...'

A fly buzzed round her; he waved it away. 'Flies,' he remembered,

         'On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand, may seize
         And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
         Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
         Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin.'

Very slowly, with the hesitating gesture of one who reaches forward to
stroke a shy and possibly rather dangerous bird, he put out his hand. It
hung there trembling, within an inch of those limp fingers, on the verge
of contact. Did he dare? Dare to profane with his unworthiest hand
that... No he didn't. The bird was too dangerous. His hand dropped back.
How beautiful she was! How beautiful!

Then suddenly he found himself reflecting that he had only to take hold
of the zipper at her neck and give one long, strong pull.... He shut
his eyes, he shook his head with the gesture of a dog shaking its ears
as it emerges from the water. Detestable thought! He was ashamed of
himself. Pure and vestal modesty...

There was a humming in the air. Another fly trying to steal immortal
blessings? A wasp? He looked, saw nothing. The humming grew louder and
louder, localized itself as being outside the shuttered windows. The
plane! In a panic, he scrambled to his feet and ran into the other room,
vaulted through the open window, and hurrying along the path between the
tall agaves was in time to receive Bernard Marx as he climbed out of the
helicopter.




                               Chapter X




The hands of all the four thousand electric clocks in all the Bloomsbury
Centre's four thousand rooms marked twenty-seven minutes past two. 'This
hive of industry,' as the Director was fond of calling it, was in the
full buzz of work. Every one was busy, everything in ordered motion.
Under the microscopes, their long tails furiously lashing, spermatozoa
were burrowing head first into eggs; and, fertilized, the eggs were
expanding, dividing, or if bokanovskified, budding and breaking up into
whole populations of separate embryos. From the Social Predestination
Room the escalators went rumbling down into the basement, and there, in
the crimson darkness, stewingly warm on their cushion of peritoneum and
gorged with blood-surrogate and hormones, the foetuses grew and grew or,
poisoned, languished into a stunted Epsilonhood. With a faint hum and
rattle the moving racks crawled imperceptibly through the weeks and the
recapitulated æons to where, in the Decanting Room, the ne