oment
really believing that he would be called upon to face anything at all.
People simply weren't transferred for things like that. Iceland was just
a threat. A most stimulating and life-giving threat. Walking along the
corridor, he actually whistled.

Heroic was the account he gave that evening of his interview with the
D.H.C. 'Whereupon,' it concluded, 'I simply told him to go to the
Bottomless Past and marched out of the room. And that was that.' He
looked at Helmholtz Watson expectantly, awaiting his due reward of
sympathy, encouragement, admiration. But no word came. Helmholtz sat
silent, staring at the floor.

He liked Bernard; he was grateful to him for being the only man of his
acquaintance with whom he could talk about the subjects he felt to be
important. Nevertheless, there were things in Bernard which he hated.
This boasting, for example. And the outbursts of an abject self-pity
with which it alternated. And his deplorable habit of being bold after
the event, and full, in absence, of the most extraordinary presence of
mind. He hated these things--just because he liked Bernard. The seconds
passed. Helmholtz continued to stare at the floor. And suddenly Bernard
blushed and turned away.


                                  § 3

The journey was quite uneventful. The Blue Pacific Rocket was two and a
half minutes early at New Orleans, lost four minutes in a tornado over
Texas, but flew into a favourable air current at Longitude 95 West, and
was able to land at Santa Fé less than forty seconds behind schedule
time.

'Forty seconds on a six and a half hour flight. Not so bad,' Lenina
conceded.

They slept that night at Santa Fé. The hotel was excellent--incomparably
better, for example, than that horrible Aurora Bora Palace in which
Lenina had suffered so much the previous summer. Liquid air, television,
vibro-vacuum massage, radio, boiling caffeine solution, hot
contraceptives, and eight different kinds of scent were laid on in every
bedroom. The synthetic music plant was working as they entered the hall
and left nothing to be desired. A notice in the lift announced that
there were sixty Escalator-Squash-Racquet Courts in the hotel, and that
Obstacle and Electro-magnetic Golf could both be played in the park.

'But it sounds simply too lovely,' cried Lenina. I almost wish we could
stay here. Sixty Escalator-Squash Courts...'

'There won't be any in the Reservation,' Bernard warned her. 'And no
scent, no television, no hot water, even. If you feel you can't stand
it, stay here till I come back.'

Lenina was quite offended. 'Of course I can stand it. I only said it was
lovely here because... well, because progress _is_ lovely, isn't it?'

'Five hundred repetitions once a week from thirteen to seventeen,' said
Bernard wearily, as though to himself.

'What did you say?'

'I said that progress was lovely. That's why you mustn't come to the
Reservation unless you really want to.'

'But I do want to.'

'Very well, then,' said Bernard; and it was almost a threat.

Their permit required the signature of the Warden of the Reservation, at
whose office next morning they duly presented themselves. An
Epsilon-Plus negro porter took in Bernard's card, and they were admitted
almost immediately.

The Warden was a blond and brachycephalic Alpha-Minus, short, red,
moon-faced, and broad-shouldered, with a loud booming voice, very well
adapted to the utterance of hypnopædic wisdom. He was a mine of
irrelevant information and unasked-for good advice. Once started, he
went on and on--boomingly.

'...five hundred and sixty thousand square kilometres, divided into
four distinct Sub-Reservations, each surrounded by a high-tension wire
fence.'

At this moment, and for no apparent reason, Bernard suddenly remembered
that he had left the eau-de-Cologne tap in his bathroom wide open and
running.

'...supplied with current from the Grand Canyon hydro-electric
station.'

'Cost me a fortune by the time I get back.' With his mind's eye, Bernard
saw the needle on the scent meter creeping round and round, ant-like,
indefatigably. 'Quickly telephone t