y rasp in his
voice.

He climbed into the plane and, a minute later was flying southwards,
towards the river.

The various Bureaux of Propaganda and the College of Emotional
Engineering were housed in a single sixty-story building in Fleet
Street. In the basement and on the lower floors were the presses and
offices of the three great London newspapers--_The Hourly Radio_, an
upper-caste sheet, the pale-green _Gamma Gazette_, and, on khaki paper
and in words exclusively of one syllable, _The Delta Mirror_. Then came
the Bureaux of Propaganda by Television, by Feeling Picture, and by
Synthetic Voice and Music respectively--twenty-two floors of them. Above
were the research laboratories and the padded rooms in which the
Sound-Track Writers and Synthetic Composers did their delicate work. The
top eighteen floors were occupied by the College of Emotional
Engineering.

Bernard landed on the roof of Propaganda House and stepped out.

'Ring down to Mr. Helmholtz Watson,' he ordered the Gamma-Plus porter,
'and tell him that Mr. Bernard Marx is waiting for him on the roof.'

He sat down and lit a cigarette.

Helmholtz Watson was writing when the message came down.

'Tell him I'm coming at once,' he said and hung up the receiver. Then,
turning to his secretary, 'I'll leave you to put my things away,' he
went on in the same official and impersonal tone; and, ignoring her
lustrous smile, got up and walked briskly to the door.

He was a powerfully built man, deep-chested, broad-shouldered, massive,
and yet quick in his movements, springy and agile. The round strong
pillar of his neck supported a beautifully shaped head. His hair was
dark and curly, his features strongly marked. In a forcible emphatic
way, he was handsome and looked, as his secretary was never tired of
repeating, every centimetre an Alpha-Plus. By profession he was a
lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing)
and in the intervals of his educational activities, a working Emotional
Engineer. He wrote regularly for _The Hourly Radio_, composed feely
scenarios, and had the happiest knack for slogans and hypnopædic rhymes.

'Able,' was the verdict of his superiors. 'Perhaps' (and they would
shake their heads, would significantly lower their voices) 'a little
_too_ able.'

Yes, a little too able; they were right. A mental excess had produced in
Helmholtz Watson effects very similar to those which, in Bernard Marx,
were the result of a physical defect. Too little bone and brawn had
isolated Bernard from his fellow men, and the sense of this apartness,
being, by all the current standards, a mental excess, became in its turn
a cause of wider separation. That which had made Helmholtz so
uncomfortably aware of being himself and all alone was too much ability.
What the two men shared was the knowledge that they were individuals.
But whereas the physically defective Bernard had suffered all his life
from the consciousness of being separate, it was only quite recently
that, grown aware of his mental excess, Helmholtz Watson had also become
aware of his difference from the people who surrounded him. This
Escalator-Squash champion, this indefatigable lover (it was said that he
had had six hundred and forty different girls in under four years), this
admirable committee man and best mixer had realized quite suddenly that
sport, women, communal activities were only, so far as he was concerned,
second bests. Really, and at the bottom, he was interested in something
else. But in what? In what? That was the problem which Bernard had come
to discuss with him--or rather, since it was always Helmholtz who did
all the talking, to listen to his friend discussing, yet once more.

Three charming girls from the Bureau of Propaganda by Synthetic Voice
waylaid him as he stepped out of the lift.

'Oh, Helmholtz darling, _do_ come and have a picnic supper with us on
Exmoor.' They clung round him imploringly.

He shook his head, he pushed his way through them. 'No, no.'

'We're not inviting any other man.'

But Helmholtz remained unshaken even by this delightful promise. 'N