 Fanny's tone was coaxing, 'it's not as though there
were anything painful or disagreeable about having one or two men
besides Henry. And seeing that, you _ought_ to be a little more
promiscuous....'

****

'Stability,' insisted the Controller, 'stability. The primal and the
ultimate need. Stability. Hence all this.'

With a wave of his hand he indicated the gardens, the huge building of
the Conditioning Centre, the naked children furtive in the undergrowth
or running across the lawns.

****

Lenina shook her head. 'Somehow,' she mused, 'I hadn't been feeling very
keen on promiscuity lately. There are times when one doesn't. Haven't
you found that too, Fanny?'

Fanny nodded her sympathy and understanding. 'But one's got to make the
effort,' she said sententiously, 'one's got to play the game. After all,
every one belongs to every one else.'

'Yes, every one belongs to every one else.' Lenina repeated slowly and,
sighing, was silent for a moment; then, taking Fanny's hand, gave it a
little squeeze. 'You're quite right, Fanny. As usual. I'll make the
effort.'

****

Impulse arrested spills over, and the flood is feeling, the flood is
passion, the flood is even madness: it depends on the force of the
current, the height and strength of the barrier. The unchecked stream
flows smoothly down its appointed channels into a calm well-being. (The
embryo is hungry; day in, day out, the blood-surrogate pump unceasingly
turns its eight hundred revolutions a minute. The decanted infant howls;
at once a nurse appears with a bottle of external secretion. Feeling
lurks in that interval of time between desire and its consummation.
Shorten that interval, break down all those old unnecessary barriers.)

'Fortunate boys!' said the Controller. 'No pains have been spared to
make your lives emotionally easy--to preserve you, so far as that is
possible, from having emotions at all.'

'Ford's in his flivver,' murmured the D.H.C. 'All's well with the
world.'

****

'Lenina Crowne?' said Henry Foster, echoing the Assistant
Predestinator's question as he zipped up his trousers. 'Oh, she's a
splendid girl. Wonderfully pneumatic. I'm surprised you haven't had
her.'

'I can't think how it is I haven't,' said the Assistant Predestinator.
'I certainly will. At the first opportunity.'

From his place on the opposite side of the changing-room aisle, Bernard
Marx overheard what they were saying and turned pale.

****

'And to tell the truth,' said Lenina, 'I'm beginning to get just a tiny
bit bored with nothing but Henry every day.' She pulled on her left
stocking. 'Do you know Bernard Marx?' she asked in a tone whose
excessive casualness was evidently forced.

Fanny looked startled. 'You don't mean to say...?'

'Why not? Bernard's an Alpha-Plus. Besides, he asked me to go to one of
the Savage Reservations with him. I've always wanted to see a Savage
Reservation.'

'But his reputation?'

'What do I care about his reputation?'

'They say he doesn't like Obstacle Golf.'

'They say, they say,' mocked Lenina.

'And then he spends most of his time by himself--_alone_.' There was
horror in Fanny's voice.

'Well, he won't be alone when he's with me. And anyhow, why are people
so beastly to him? I think he's rather sweet.' She smiled to herself;
how absurdly shy he had been! Frightened almost--as though she were a
World Controller and he a Gamma-Minus machine minder.

****

'Consider your own lives,' said Mustapha Mond. 'Has any of you ever
encountered an insurmountable obstacle?'

The question was answered by a negative silence.

'Has any of you been compelled to live through a long time-interval
between the consciousness of a desire and its fulfilment?'

'Well,' began one of the boys, and hesitated.

'Speak up,' said the D.H.C. 'Don't keep his fordship waiting.'

'I once had to wait nearly four weeks before a girl I wanted would let
me have her.'

'And you felt a strong emotion in consequence?'

'Horrible!'

'Horrible; precisely,' said the Controller. 'Our ancestors were so
stupid and short-sighted that when the first reformers came along and
offered to deliver t