e view
from the platform of the Charing-T Tower. The Station Master and the
Resident Meteorologist were acting as guides. But it was Bernard who did
most of the talking. Intoxicated, he was behaving as though, at the very
least, he were a visiting World Controller. Lighter than air.

The Bombay Green Rocket dropped out of the sky. The passengers alighted.
Eight identical Dravidian twins in khaki looked out of the eight
portholes of the cabin--the stewards.

'Twelve hundred and fifty kilometres an hour,' said the Station Master
impressively. 'What do you think of that, Mr. Savage?'

John thought it very nice. 'Still,' he said, 'Ariel could put a girdle
round the earth in forty minutes.'

****

'The Savage,' wrote Bernard in his report to Mustapha Mond, 'shows
surprisingly little astonishment at, or awe of, civilized inventions.
This is partly due, no doubt, to the fact that he has heard them talked
about by the woman Linda, his m----.'

(Mustapha Mond frowned. 'Does the fool think I'm too squeamish to see
the word written out at full length?')

'Partly on his interest being focussed on what he calls "the soul,"
which he persists as regarding as an entity independent of the physical
environment; whereas, as I tried to point out to him...'

The Controller skipped the next sentences and was just about to turn the
page in search of something more interestingly concrete, when his eye
was caught by a series of quite extraordinary phrases. '...though I
must admit,' he read, 'that I agree with the Savage in finding civilized
infantility too easy or, as he puts it, not expensive enough; and I
would like to take this opportunity of drawing your fordship's attention
to...'

Mustapha Mond's anger gave place almost at once to mirth. The idea of
this creature solemnly lecturing him--_him_--about the social order was
really too grotesque. The man must have gone mad. 'I ought to give him a
lesson,' he said to himself; then threw back his head and laughed aloud.
For the moment, at any rate, the lesson would not be given.

****

It was a small factory of lighting-sets for helicopters, a branch of the
Electrical Equipment Corporation. They were met on the roof itself (for
that circular letter of recommendation from the Controller was magical
in its effects) by the Chief Technician and the Human Element Manager.
They walked downstairs into the factory.

'Each process,' explained the Human Element Manager, 'is carried out, so
far as possible, by a single Bokanovsky Group.'

And, in effect, eighty-three almost noseless black brachycephalic Deltas
were cold-pressing. The fifty-six four-spindle chucking and turning
machines were being manipulated by fifty-six aquiline and ginger Gammas.
One hundred and seven heat-conditioned Epsilon Senegalese were working
in the foundry. Thirty-three Delta females, long-headed, sandy, with
narrow pelvises, and all within 20 millimetres of 1 metre 69 centimetres
tall, were cutting screws. In the assembling room, the dynamos were
being put together by two sets of Gamma-Plus dwarfs. The two low
work-tables faced one another; between them crawled the conveyor with
its load of separate parts; forty-seven blond heads were confronted by
forty-seven brown ones. Forty-seven snubs by forty-seven hooks;
forty-seven receding by forty-seven prognathous chins. The completed
mechanisms were inspected by eighteen identical curly auburn girls in
Gamma green, packed in crates by thirty-four short-legged, left-handed
male Delta-Minuses, and loaded into the waiting trucks and lorries by
sixty-three blue-eyed, flaxen and freckled Epsilon Semi-Morons.

'O brave new world...' By some malice of his memory the Savage found
himself repeating Miranda's words. 'O brave new world that has such
people in it.'

'And I assure you,' the Human Element Manager concluded, as they left
the factory, 'we hardly ever have any trouble with our workers. We
always find...'

But the Savage had suddenly broken away from his companions and was
violently retching, behind a clump of laurels, as though the solid earth
had been a helicopter in an air pocket.

