ara Deterding. 'It'll
be a failure again,' he said to himself. 'I know it will.' But he went
on doing his best to beam.

The loving cup had made its circuit. Lifting his hand, the President
gave a signal; the chorus broke out into the third Solidarity Hymn.

                   Feel how the Greater Being comes!
                     Rejoice and, in rejoicings, die!
                   Melt in the music of the drums!
                     For I am you and you are I.

As verse succeeded verse the voices thrilled with an ever intenser
excitement. The sense of the Coming's imminence was like an electric
tension in the air. The President switched off the music and, with the
final note of the final stanza, there was absolute silence--the silence
of stretched expectancy, quivering and creeping with a galvanic life.
The President reached out his hand; and suddenly a Voice, a deep strong
Voice, more musical than any merely human voice, richer, warmer, more
vibrant with love and yearning and compassion, a wonderful, mysterious,
supernatural Voice spoke from above their heads. Very slowly, 'Oh, Ford,
Ford, Ford,' it said diminishingly and on a descending scale. A
sensation of warmth radiated thrillingly out from the solar plexus to
every extremity of the bodies of those who listened; tears came into
their eyes; their hearts, their bowels seemed to move within them, as
though with an independent life. 'Ford!' they were melting, 'Ford!'
dissolved, dissolved. Then, in another tone, suddenly, startlingly.
'Listen!' trumpeted the Voice. 'Listen!' They listened. After a pause,
sunk to a whisper, but a whisper, somehow, more penetrating than the
loudest cry. 'The feet of the Greater Being,' it went on, and repeated
the words: 'The feet of the Greater Being.' The whisper almost expired.
'The feet of the Greater Being are on the stairs.' And once more there
was silence; and the expectancy, momentarily relaxed, was stretched
again, tauter, tauter, almost to the tearing point. The feet of the
Greater Being--oh, they heard them, they heard them, coming softly down
the stairs, coming nearer and nearer down the invisible stairs. The feet
of the Greater Being. And suddenly the tearing point was reached. Her
eyes staring, her lips parted, Morgana Rothschild sprang to her feet.

'I hear him,' she cried. 'I hear him.'

'He's coming,' shouted Sarojini Engels.

'Yes, he's coming, I hear him.' Fifi Bradlaugh and Tom Kawaguchi rose
simultaneously to their feet.

'Oh, oh, oh!' Joanna inarticulately testified.

'He's coming!' yelled Jim Bokanovsky.

The President leaned forward and, with a touch, released a delirium of
cymbals and blown brass, a fever of tom-tomming.

'Oh, he's coming!' screamed Clara Deterding. 'Aie!' and it was as though
she were having her throat cut.

Feeling that it was time for him to do something, Bernard also jumped up
and shouted: 'I hear him; he's coming.' But it wasn't true. He heard
nothing and, for him, nobody was coming. Nobody--in spite of the music,
in spite of the mounting excitement. But he waved his arms, he shouted
with the best of them; and when the others began to jig and stamp and
shuffle, he also jigged and shuffled.

Round they went, a circular procession of dancers, each with hands on
the hips of the dancer preceding, round and round, shouting in unison,
stamping to the rhythm of the music with their feet, beating it, beating
it out with hands on the buttocks in front; twelve pairs of hands
beating as one; as one, twelve buttocks slabbily resounding. Twelve as
one, twelve as one. 'I hear him, I hear him coming.' The music
quickened; faster beat the feet, faster, faster fell the rhythmic hands.
And all at once a great synthetic bass boomed out the words which
announced the approaching atonement and final consummation of
solidarity, the coming of the Twelve-in-One, the incarnation of the
Greater Being. 'Orgy-porgy,' it sang, while the tom-toms continued to
beat their feverish tattoo:

                   Orgy-porgy, Ford and fun,
                   Kiss the girls and make them One.
                   Boys at one with gi