t him. Even though he did get so upset whenever a
man... Quite as a tiny boy, even. Once (but that was when he was
bigger) he tried to kill poor Waihusiwa--or was it Popé?--just because I
used to have them sometimes. Because I never _could_ make him understand
that that was what civilized people ought to do. Being mad's infectious,
I believe. Anyhow, John seems to have caught it from the Indians.
Because, of course, he was with them a lot. Even though they always were
so beastly to him and wouldn't let him do all the things the other boys
did. Which was a good thing in a way, because it made it easier for me
to condition him a little. Though you've no idea how difficult that is.
There's so much one doesn't know; it wasn't my business to know. I mean,
when a child asks you how a helicopter works or who made the
world--well, what are you to answer if you're a Beta and have always
worked in the Fertilizing Room? What _are_ you to answer?'




                              Chapter VIII




Outside, in the dust and among the garbage (there were four dogs now),
Bernard and John were walking slowly up and down.

'So hard for me to realize,' Bernard was saying, 'to reconstruct. As
though we were living on different planets, in different centuries. A
mother, and all this dirt, and gods, and old age, and disease...' He
shook his head. 'It's almost inconceivable. I shall never understand
unless you explain.'

'Explain what?'

'This.' He indicated the pueblo. 'That.' And it was the little house
outside the village. 'Everything. All your life.'

'But what is there to say?'

'From the beginning. As far back as you can remember.'

'As far back as I can remember.' John frowned. There was a long silence.

****

It was very hot. They had eaten a lot of tortillas and sweet corn. Linda
said, 'Come and lie down, Baby.' They lay down together in the big bed.
'Sing,' and Linda sang. Sang 'Streptocock-Gee to Banbury-T' and 'Bye,
Baby Banting, soon you'll need decanting.' Her voice got fainter and
fainter...

There was a loud noise, and he woke with a start. A man was standing by
the bed, enormous, frightening. He was saying something to Linda, and
Linda was laughing. She had pulled the blanket up to her chin, but the
man pulled it down again. His hair was like two black ropes, and round
his arm was a lovely silver bracelet with blue stones in it. He liked
the bracelet; but all the same, he was frightened; he hid his face
against Linda's body. Linda put her hand on him and he felt safer. In
those other words he did not understand so well, she said to the man,
'Not with John here.' The man looked at him, then again at Linda, and
said a few words in a soft voice. Linda said, 'No.' But the man bent
over the bed towards him and his face was huge, terrible; the black
ropes of hair touched the blanket. 'No,' Linda said again, and he felt
her hand squeezing him more tightly. 'No, no!' But the man took hold of
one of his arms, and it hurt. He screamed. The man put out his other
hand and lifted him up. Linda was still holding him, still saying 'No,
no.' The man said something short and angry, and suddenly her hands were
gone. 'Linda, Linda.' He kicked and wriggled; but the man carried him
across to the door, opened it, put him down on the floor in the middle
of the other room, and went away, shutting the door behind him. He got
up, he ran to the door. Standing on tiptoe he could just reach the big
wooden latch. He lifted it and pushed; but the door wouldn't open.
'Linda,' he shouted. She didn't answer.

****

He remembered a huge room, rather dark; and there were big wooden things
with strings fastened to them, and lots of women standing round
them--making blankets, Linda said. Linda told him to sit in the corner
with the other children, while she went and helped the women. He played
with the little boys for a long time. Suddenly people started talking
very loud, and there were the women pushing Linda away, and Linda was
crying. She went to the door and he ran after her. He asked her why they
were angry. 'Because I broke something,' she said. And then sh