re--had never seen a face that
was not youthful and taut-skinned, a body that had ceased to be slim and
upright. All these moribund sexagenarians had the appearance of childish
girls. At forty-four, Linda seemed, by contrast, a monster of flaccid
and distorted senility.

'Isn't she awful?' came the whispered comments. 'Look at her teeth!'

Suddenly from under the bed a pug-faced twin popped up between John's
chair and the wall, and began peering into Linda's sleeping face.

'I say...' he began; but his sentence ended prematurely in a squeal.
The Savage had seized him by the collar, lifted him clear over the chair
and, with a smart box on the ears, sent him howling away.

His yells brought the Head Nurse hurrying to the rescue.

'What have you been doing to him?' she demanded fiercely. 'I won't have
you striking the children.'

'Well, then, keep them away from this bed.' The Savage's voice was
trembling with indignation. 'What are these filthy little brats doing
here at all? It's disgraceful!'

'Disgraceful? But what do you mean? They're being death-conditioned. And
I tell you,' she warned him truculently, 'if I have any more of your
interference with their conditioning, I'll send for the porters and have
you thrown out.'

The Savage rose to his feet and took a couple of steps towards her. His
movements and the expression on his face were so menacing that the nurse
fell back in terror. With a great effort he checked himself and, without
speaking, turned away and sat down again by the bed.

Reassured, but with a dignity that was a trifle shrill and uncertain,
'I've warned you,' said the nurse, 'so mind.' Still, she led the too
inquisitive twins away and made them join in the game of
hunt-the-zipper, which had been organized by one of her colleagues at
the other end of the room.

'Run along now and have your cup of caffeine solution, dear,' she said
to the other nurse. The exercise of authority restored her confidence,
made her feel better. 'Now, children!' she called.

Linda had stirred uneasily, had opened her eyes for a moment, looked
vaguely around, and then once more dropped off to sleep. Sitting beside
her, the Savage tried hard to recapture his mood of a few minutes
before. 'A, B, C, vitamin D,' he repeated to himself, as though the
words were a spell that would restore the dead past to life. But the
spell was ineffective. Obstinately the beautiful memories refused to
rise; there was only a hateful resurrection of jealousies and uglinesses
and miseries. Popé with the blood trickling down from his cut shoulder;
and Linda hideously asleep, and the flies buzzing round the spilt
_mescal_ on the floor beside the bed; and the boys calling those names
as she passed.... Ah, no, no! He shut his eyes, he shook his head in
strenuous denial of these memories. 'A, B, C, vitamin D...' He tried
to think of those times when he sat on her knees and she put her arms
about him and sang, over and over again, rocking him, rocking him to
sleep. 'A, B, C, vitamin D, vitamin D, vitamin D...'

The Super-Vox-Wurlitzeriana had risen to a sobbing crescendo; and
suddenly the verbena gave place, in the scent-circulating system, to an
intense patchouli. Linda stirred, woke up, stared for a few seconds
bewilderedly at the Semi-finalists, then, lifting her face, sniffed once
or twice at the newly perfumed air and suddenly smiled--a smile of
childish ecstasy.

'Popé!' she murmured, and closed her eyes. 'Oh, I do so like it,
I do...' She sighed and let herself sink back into the pillows.

'But, Linda!' The Savage spoke imploringly. 'Don't you know me?' He had
tried so hard, had done his very best; why wouldn't she allow him to
forget? He squeezed her limp hand almost with violence, as though he
would force her to come back from this dream of ignoble pleasures, from
these base and hateful memories--back into the present, back into
reality: the appalling present, the awful reality--but sublime, but
significant, but desperately important precisely because of the
imminence of that which made them so fearful. 'Don't you know me,
Linda?'

He felt the faint 