alcum powder. Eight different
scents and eau-de-Cologne were laid on in little taps over the
wash-basin. She turned on the third from the left, dabbled herself with
chypre and, carrying her shoes and stockings in her hand, went out to
see if one of the vibro-vacuum machines were free.

****

And home was as squalid psychically as physically. Psychically, it was a
rabbit hole, a midden, hot with the frictions of tightly packed life,
reeking with emotion. What suffocating intimacies, what dangerous,
insane, obscene relationships between the members of the family group!
Maniacally, the mother brooded over her children (_her_ children)...
brooded over them like a cat over its kittens; but a cat that could
talk, a cat that could say, 'My baby, my baby,' over and over again. 'My
baby, and oh, oh, at my breast, the little hands, the hunger, and that
unspeakable agonizing pleasure! Till at last my baby sleeps, my baby
sleeps with a bubble of white milk at the corner of his mouth. My little
baby sleeps...'

'Yes,' said Mustapha Mond, nodding his head, 'you may well shudder.'

****

'Who are you going out with to-night?' Lenina asked, returning from the
vibro-vac like a pearl illuminated from within, pinkly glowing.

'Nobody.'

Lenina raised her eyebrows in astonishment.

'I've been feeling rather out of sorts lately,' Fanny explained. 'Dr.
Wells advised me to have a Pregnancy Substitute.'

'But, my dear, you're only nineteen. The first Pregnancy Substitute
isn't compulsory till twenty-one.'

'I know, dear. But some people are better if they begin earlier. Dr.
Wells told me that brunettes with wide pelvises, like me, ought to have
their first Pregnancy Substitute at seventeen. So I'm really two years
late, not two years early.' She opened the door of her locker and
pointed to the row of boxes and labelled phials on the upper shelf.

'SYRUP OF CORPUS LUTEUM.' Lenina read the names aloud. ='Ovarin,
guaranteed fresh: not to be used after August 1st, a.f. 632. Mammary
Gland Extract: to be taken Three Times Daily, Before Meals, with a
Little Water. Placentin: 5cc to be Injected Intravenally every Third
Day=... Ugh!' Lenina shuddered. 'How I loathe intravenals,
don't you?'

'Yes. But when they do one good...' Fanny was a particularly sensible
girl.

****

Our Ford--or Our Freud, as, for some inscrutable reason, he chose to
call himself whenever he spoke of psychological matters--Our Freud had
been the first to reveal the appalling dangers of family life. The world
was full of fathers--was therefore full of misery; full of
mothers--therefore of every kind of perversion from sadism to chastity;
full of brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts--full of madness and suicide.

'And yet, among the savages of Samoa, in certain islands off the coast
of New Guinea...'

The tropical sunshine lay like warm honey on the naked bodies of
children tumbling promiscuously among the hibiscus blossoms. Home was in
any one of twenty palm-thatched houses. In the Trobriands conception was
the work of ancestral ghosts; nobody had ever heard of a father.

'Extremes,' said the Controller, 'meet. For the good reason that they
were made to meet.'

****

'Dr. Wells says that a three months' Pregnancy Substitute now will make
all the difference to my health for the next three or four years.'

'Well, I hope he's right,' said Lenina. 'But, Fanny, do you really mean
to say that for the next three months you're not supposed to...'

'Oh no, dear. Only for a week or two, that's all. I shall spend the
evening at the Club playing Musical Bridge. I suppose you're going out?'

Lenina nodded.

'Who with?'

'Henry Foster.'

'Again?' Fanny's kind, rather moon-like face took on an incongruous
expression of pained and disapproving astonishment. 'Do you mean to tell
me you're _still_ going out with Henry Foster?'

****

Mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters. But there were also husbands,
wives, lovers. There were also monogamy and romance.

'Though you probably don't know what those are,' said Mustapha Mond.

They shook their heads.

Family, monogamy, romance. Everywhere exclusiveness,