of
a girl whose cheeks were not the colour of chocolate or dogskin, whose
hair was auburn and permanently waved, and whose expression (amazing
novelty!) was one of benevolent interest. Lenina was smiling at him;
such a nice-looking boy, she was thinking, and a really beautiful body.
The blood rushed up into the young man's face; he dropped his eyes,
raised them again for a moment only to find her still smiling at him,
and was so much overcome that he had to turn away and pretend to be
looking very hard at something on the other side of the square.

Bernard's questions made a diversion. Who? How? When? From where?
Keeping his eyes fixed on Bernard's face (for so passionately did he
long to see Lenina smiling that he simply dared not look at her), the
young man tried to explain himself. Linda and he--Linda was his mother
(the word made Lenina look uncomfortable)--were strangers in the
Reservation. Linda had come from the Other Place long ago, before he was
born, with a man who was his father. (Bernard pricked up his ears.) She
had gone walking alone in those mountains over there to the North, had
fallen down a steep place and hurt her head. ('Go on, go on,' said
Bernard excitedly.) Some hunters from Malpais had found her and brought
her to the pueblo. As for the man who was his father, Linda had never
seen him again. His name was Tomakin. (Yes, 'Thomas' was the D.H.C.'s
first name.) He must have flown away, back to the Other Place, away
without her--a bad, unkind, unnatural man.

'And so I was born in Malpais,' he concluded. 'In Malpais.' And he shook
his head.

****

The squalor of that little house on the outskirts of the pueblo!

A space of dust and rubbish separated it from the village. Two
famine-stricken dogs were nosing obscenely in the garbage at its door.
Inside, when they entered, the twilight stank and was loud with flies.

'Linda!' the young man called.

From the inner room a rather hoarse female voice said, 'Coming.'

They waited. In bowls on the floor were the remains of a meal, perhaps
of several meals.

The door opened. A very stout blonde squaw stepped across the threshold
and stood looking at the strangers, staring incredulously, her mouth
open. Lenina noticed with disgust that two of the front teeth were
missing. And the colour of the ones that remained... She shuddered.
It was worse than the old man. So fat. And all the lines in her face,
the flabbiness, the wrinkles. And the sagging cheeks, with those
purplish blotches. And the red veins on her nose, the bloodshot eyes.
And that neck--that neck; and the blanket she wore over her head--ragged
and filthy. And under the brown sack-shaped tunic those enormous
breasts, the bulge of the stomach, the hips. Oh, much worse than the old
man, much worse! And suddenly the creature burst out in a torrent of
speech, rushed at her with outstretched arms and--Ford! Ford! it was too
revolting, in another moment she'd be sick--pressed her against the
bulge, the bosom, and began to kiss her. Ford! to _kiss_, slobberingly,
and smelt too horrible, obviously never had a bath, and simply reeked of
that beastly stuff that was put into Delta and Epsilon bottles (no, it
wasn't true about Bernard), positively stank of alcohol. She broke away
as quickly as she could.

A blubbered and distorted face confronted her; the creature was crying.

'Oh, my dear, my dear.' The torrent of words flowed sobbingly. 'If you
knew how glad--after all these years! A civilized face. Yes, and
civilized clothes. Because I thought I should never see a piece of real
acetate silk again.' She fingered the sleeve of Lenina's shirt. The
nails were black. 'And those adorable viscose velveteen shorts! Do you
know, dear, I've still got my old clothes, the ones I came in, put away
in a box. I'll show them you afterwards. Though, of course, the acetate
has all gone into holes. But such a lovely white bandolier--though I
must say your green morocco is even lovelier. Not that it did _me_ much
good, that bandolier.' Her tears began to flow again. 'I suppose John
told you. What I had to suffer--and not a gramme of 