floor.

Still wearing her shoes and socks, and her rakishly tilted round white
cap, she advanced towards him. 'Darling. _Darling!_ If only you'd said
so before!' She held out her arms.

But instead of also saying 'Darling!' and holding out _his_ arms, the
Savage retreated in terror, flapping his hands at her as though he were
trying to scare away some intruding and dangerous animal. Four backward
steps, and he was brought to bay against the wall.

'Sweet!' said Lenina and, laying her hands on his shoulders, pressed
herself against him. 'Put your arms round me,' she commanded. 'Hug me
till you drug me, honey.' She too had poetry at her command, knew words
that sang and were spells and beat drums. 'Kiss me'; she closed her
eyes, she let her voice sink to a sleepy murmur, 'kiss me till I'm in a
coma. Hug me, honey, snuggly...'

The Savage caught her by the wrists, tore her hands from his shoulders,
thrust her roughly away at arm's length.

'Ow, you're hurting me, you're... oh!' She was suddenly silent.
Terror had made her forget the pain. Opening her eyes, she had seen his
face--no, not _his_ face, a ferocious stranger's, pale, distorted,
twitching with some insane, inexplicable fury. Aghast, 'But what is it,
John?' she whispered. He did not answer, but only stared into her face
with those mad eyes. The hands that held her wrists were trembling. He
breathed deeply and irregularly. Faint almost to imperceptibility, but
appalling, she suddenly heard the grinding of his teeth. 'What is it?'
she almost screamed.

And as though awakened by her cry he caught her by the shoulders and
shook her. 'Whore!' he shouted. 'Whore! Impudent strumpet!'

'Oh, don't, do-on't,' she protested in a voice made grotesquely
tremulous by his shaking.

'Whore!'

'Plea-ease.'

'Damned whore!'

'A gra-amme is be-etter...' she began.

The Savage pushed her away with such force that she staggered and fell.
'Go,' he shouted, standing over her menacingly, 'get out of my sight or
I'll kill you.' He clenched his fists.

Lenina raised her arm to cover her face. 'No, please don't, John...'

'Hurry up. Quick!'

One arm still raised, and following his every movement with a terrified
eye, she scrambled to her feet and still crouching, still covering her
head, made a dash for the bathroom.

The noise of that prodigious slap by which her departure was accelerated
was like a pistol-shot.

'Ow!' Lenina bounded forward.

Safely locked into the bathroom, she had leisure to take stock of her
injuries. Standing with her back to the mirror, she twisted her head.
Looking over her left shoulder she could see the imprint of an open hand
standing out distinct and crimson on the pearly flesh. Gingerly she
rubbed the wounded spot.

Outside, in the other room, the Savage was striding up and down,
marching, marching to the drums and music of magical words. 'The wren
goes to't, and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight.'
Maddeningly they rumbled in his ears. 'The fitchew nor the soiled horse
goes to't with a more riotous appetite. Down from the waist they are
Centaurs, though women all above. But to the girdle do the gods inherit.
Beneath is all the fiends'. There's hell, there's darkness, there is the
sulphurous pit, burning, scalding, stench, consumption; fie, fie, fie,
pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my
imagination.'

'John!' ventured a small ingratiating voice from the bathroom. 'John!'

'O thou weed, who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet that the
sense aches at thee. Was this most goodly book made to write "whore"
upon? Heaven stops the nose at it...'

But her perfume still hung about him, his jacket was white with the
powder that had scented her velvety body. 'Impudent strumpet, impudent
strumpet, impudent strumpet.' The inexorable rhythm beat itself out.
'Impudent...'

'John, do you think I might have my clothes?'

He picked up the bell-bottomed trousers, the blouse, the
zippicamiknicks.

'Open!' he ordered, kicking the door.

'No, I won't.' The voice was frightened and defiant.

'Well, how do you expect me to give them to you?