an the headlines on the front page. '=Sensation
in Surrey=.'

'Sensation even in London,' thought the reporter when, on his return, he
read the words. And a very painful sensation, what was more. He sat down
gingerly to his luncheon.

Undeterred by that cautionary bruise on their colleague's coccyx, four
other reporters, representing the New York _Times_, the Frankfurt
_Four-Dimensional Continuum_, _The Fordian Science Monitor_, and _The
Delta Mirror_, called that afternoon at the lighthouse and met with
receptions of progressively increasing violence.

From a safe distance and still rubbing his buttocks, 'Benighted fool!'
shouted the man from _The Fordian Science Monitor_, 'why don't you take
_soma_?'

'Get away!' The Savage shook his fist.

The other retreated a few steps, then turned round again. 'Evil's an
unreality if you take a couple of grammes.'

'_Kohakwa iyathtokyai!_' The tone was menacingly derisive.

'Pain's a delusion.'

'Oh, is it?' said the Savage and, picking up a thick hazel switch,
strode forward.

The man from _The Fordian Science Monitor_ made a dash for his
helicopter.

After that the Savage was left for a time in peace. A few helicopters
came and hovered inquisitively round the tower. He shot an arrow into
the importunately nearest of them. It pierced the aluminium floor of the
cabin; there was a shrill yell, and the machine went rocketing up into
the air with all the acceleration that its super-charger could give it.
The others, in future, kept their distance respectfully. Ignoring their
tiresome humming (he likened himself in his imagination to one of the
suitors of the Maiden of Mátsaki, unmoved and persistent among the
winged vermin), the Savage dug at what was to be his garden. After a
time the vermin evidently became bored and flew away; for hours at a
stretch the sky above his head was empty and, but for the larks, silent.

The weather was breathlessly hot, there was thunder in the air. He had
dug all the morning and was resting, stretched out along the floor. And
suddenly the thought of Lenina was a real presence, naked and tangible,
saying 'Sweet!' and 'Put your arms round me!'--in shoes and socks,
perfumed. Impudent strumpet! But oh, oh, her arms round his neck, the
lifting of her breasts, her mouth! Eternity was in our lips and eyes.
Lenina... No, no, no, no! He sprang to his feet and, half naked as he
was, ran out of the house. At the edge of the heath stood a clump of
hoary juniper bushes. He flung himself against them, he embraced, not
the smooth body of his desires, but an armful of green spikes. Sharp,
with a thousand points, they pricked him. He tried to think of poor
Linda, breathless and dumb, with her clutching hands and the unutterable
terror in her eyes. Poor Linda whom he had sworn to remember. But it was
still the presence of Lenina that haunted him. Lenina whom he had
promised to forget. Even through the stab and sting of the juniper
needles, his wincing flesh was aware of her, unescapably real. 'Sweet,
sweet... And if you wanted me too, why didn't you...'

The whip was hanging on a nail by the door, ready to hand against the
arrival of reporters. In a frenzy the Savage ran back to the house,
seized it, whirled it. The knotted cords bit into his flesh.

'Strumpet! Strumpet!' he shouted at every blow as though it were Lenina
(and how frantically, without knowing it, he wished it were!), white,
warm, scented, infamous Lenina that he was flogging thus. 'Strumpet!'
And then, in a voice of despair, 'Oh, Linda, forgive me. Forgive me,
God. I'm bad. I'm wicked. I'm... No, no, you strumpet, you strumpet!'

From his carefully constructed hide in the wood three hundred metres
away, Darwin Bonaparte, the Feely Corporation's most expert big-game
photographer, had watched the whole proceedings. Patience and skill had
been rewarded. He had spent three days sitting inside the bole of an
artificial oak tree, three nights crawling on his belly through the
heather, hiding microphones in gorse bushes, burying wires in the soft
grey sand. Seventy-two hours of profound discomfort. But now the g