ight; but his
insomnia had not been fruitless; he had a plan.

Punctually, on the following morning, at ten o'clock, the
green-uniformed octoroon stepped out of his helicopter. Bernard was
waiting for him among the agaves.

'Miss Crowne's gone on _soma_-holiday,' he explained. 'Can hardly be
back before five. Which leaves us seven hours.'

He could fly to Santa Fé, do all the business he had to do, and be in
Malpais again long before she woke up.

'She'll be quite safe here by herself?'

'Safe as helicopters,' the octoroon assured him.

They climbed into the machine and started off at once. At ten
thirty-four they landed on the roof of the Santa Fé Post Office; at ten
thirty-seven Bernard had got through to the World Controller's Office in
Whitehall; at ten thirty-nine he was speaking to his fordship's fourth
personal secretary; at ten forty-four he was repeating his story to the
first secretary, and at ten forty-seven and a half it was the deep,
resonant voice of Mustapha Mond himself that sounded in his ears.

'I ventured to think,' stammered Bernard, 'that your fordship might find
the matter of sufficient scientific interest...'

'Yes, I do find it of sufficient scientific interest,' said the deep
voice. 'Bring these two individuals back to London with you.'

'Your fordship is aware that I shall need a special permit...'

'The necessary orders,' said Mustapha Mond, 'are being sent to the
Warden of the Reservation at this moment. You will proceed at once to
the Warden's Office. Good-morning, Mr. Marx.'

There was silence. Bernard hung up the receiver and hurried up to the
roof.

'Warden's Office,' he said to the Gamma-green octoroon.

At ten fifty-four Bernard was shaking hands with the Warden.

'Delighted, Mr. Marx, delighted.' His boom was deferential. 'We have
just received special orders...'

'I know,' said Bernard, interrupting him. 'I was talking to his fordship
on the phone a moment ago.' His bored tone implied that he was in the
habit of talking to his fordship every day of the week. He dropped into
a chair. 'If you'll kindly take all the necessary steps as soon as
possible. As soon as possible,' he emphatically repeated. He was
thoroughly enjoying himself.

At eleven three he had all the necessary papers in his pocket.

'So long,' he said patronizingly to the Warden, who had accompanied him
as far as the lift gates. 'So long.'

He walked across to the hotel, had a bath, a vibro-vac massage, and an
electrolytic shave, listened in to the morning's news, looked in for
half an hour on the televisor, ate a leisured luncheon, and at half-past
two flew back with the octoroon to Malpais.

****

The young man stood outside the rest-house.

'Bernard,' he called. 'Bernard!' There was no answer.

Noiseless on his deerskin moccasins, he ran up the steps and tried the
door. The door was locked.

They were gone! Gone! It was the most terrible thing that had ever
happened to him. She had asked him to come and see them, and now they
were gone. He sat down on the steps and cried.

Half an hour later it occurred to him to look through the window. The
first thing he saw was a green suit-case, with the initials L. C.
painted on the lid. Joy flared up like fire within him. He picked up a
stone. The smashed glass tinkled on the floor. A moment later he was
inside the room. He opened the green suit-case; and all at once he was
breathing Lenina's perfume, filling his lungs with her essential being.
His heart beat wildly; for a moment he was almost faint. Then, bending
over the precious box, he touched, he lifted into the light, he
examined. The zippers on Lenina's spare pair of viscose velveteen shorts
were at first a puzzle, then, solved, a delight. Zip, and then zip; zip,
and then zip; he was enchanted. Her green slippers were the most
beautiful things he had ever seen. He unfolded a pair of
zippicamiknicks, blushed, put them hastily away again; but kissed a
perfumed acetate handkerchief and wound a scarf round his neck. Opening
a box, he spilt a cloud of scented powder. His hands were floury with
the stuff. He wiped them on his che