le is the longest river in Africa and the second in length
of all the rivers of the globe. Although falling short of the length
of the Mississippi-Missouri, the Nile is at the head of all rivers as
regards the length of its basin, which extends through 35 degrees of
latitude...'

At breakfast the next morning, 'Tommy,' some one says, 'do you know
which is the longest river in Africa?' A shaking of the head. 'But don't
you remember something that begins: The Nile is the...'

'The-Nile-is-the-longest-river-in-Africa-and-the
second-in-length-of-all-the-rivers-of-the-globe...' The words come
rushing out. 'Although-falling-short-of...'

'Well now, which is the longest river in Africa?'

The eyes are blank. 'I don't know.'

'But the Nile, Tommy.'

'The-Nile-is-the-longest-river-in-Africa-and-second...'

'Then which river is the longest, Tommy?'

Tommy bursts into tears. 'I don't know,' he howls.)

That howl, the Director made it plain, discouraged the earliest
investigators. The experiments were abandoned. No further attempt was
made to teach children the length of the Nile in their sleep. Quite
rightly. You can't learn a science unless you know what it's all about.

'Whereas, if they'd only started on _moral_ education,' said the
Director, leading the way towards the door. The students followed him,
desperately scribbling as they walked and all the way up in the lift.
'Moral education, which ought never, in any circumstances, to be
rational.'

'Silence, silence,' whispered a loud-speaker as they stepped out at the
fourteenth floor, and 'Silence, silence,' the trumpet mouths
indefatigably repeated at intervals down every corridor. The students
and even the Director himself rose automatically to the tips of their
toes. They were Alphas, of course; but even Alphas have been well
conditioned. 'Silence, silence.' All the air of the fourteenth floor was
sibilant with the categorical imperative.

Fifty yards of tiptoeing brought them to a door which the Director
cautiously opened. They stepped over the threshold into the twilight of
a shuttered dormitory. Eighty cots stood in a row against the wall.
There was a sound of light regular breathing and a continuous murmur, as
of very faint voices remotely whispering.

A nurse rose as they entered and came to attention before the Director.

'What's the lesson this afternoon?' he asked.

'We had Elementary Sex for the first forty minutes,' she answered. 'But
now it's switched over to Elementary Class Consciousness.'

The Director walked slowly down the long line of cots. Rosy and relaxed
with sleep, eighty little boys and girls lay softly breathing. There was
a whisper under every pillow. The D.H.C. halted and, bending over one of
the little beds, listened attentively.

'Elementary Class Consciousness, did you say? Let's have it repeated a
little louder by the trumpet.'

At the end of the room a loud-speaker projected from the wall. The
Director walked up to it and pressed a switch.

'...all wear green,' said a soft but very distinct voice, beginning
in the middle of a sentence, 'and Delta Children wear khaki. Oh no, I
don't want to play with Delta children. And Epsilons are still worse.
They're too stupid to be able to read or write. Besides, they wear
black, which is such a beastly colour. I'm _so_ glad I'm a Beta.'

There was a pause; then the voice began again.

'Alpha children wear grey. They work much harder than we do, because
they're so frightfully clever. I'm really awfully glad I'm a Beta,
because I don't work so hard. And then we are much better than the
Gammas and Deltas. Gammas are stupid. They all wear green, and Delta
children wear khaki. Oh no, I _don't_ want to play with Delta children.
And Epsilons are still worse. They're too stupid to be able...'

The Director pushed back the switch. The voice was silent. Only its thin
ghost continued to mutter from beneath the eighty pillows.

'They'll have that repeated forty or fifty times more before they wake;
then again on Thursday, and again on Saturday. A hundred and twenty
times three times a week for thirty months. After which