spoke the words.

'But chastity means passion, chastity means neurasthenia. And passion
and neurasthenia mean instability. And instability means the end of
civilization. You can't have a lasting civilization without plenty of
pleasant vices.'

'But God's the reason for everything noble and fine and heroic. If you
had a God...'

'My dear young friend,' said Mustapha Mond, 'civilization has absolutely
no need of nobility or heroism. These things are symptoms of political
inefficiency. In a properly organized society like ours, nobody has any
opportunities for being noble or heroic. Conditions have got to be
thoroughly unstable before the occasion can arise. Where there are wars,
where there are divided allegiances, where there are temptations to be
resisted, objects of love to be fought for or defended--there,
obviously, nobility and heroism have some sense. But there aren't any
wars nowadays. The greatest care is taken to prevent you from loving any
one too much. There's no such thing as a divided allegiance; you're so
conditioned that you can't help doing what you ought to do. And what you
ought to do is on the whole so pleasant, so many of the natural impulses
are allowed free play, that there really aren't any temptations to
resist. And if ever, by some unlucky chance, anything unpleasant should
somehow happen, why, there's always _soma_ to give you a holiday from
the facts. And there's always _soma_ to calm your anger, to reconcile
you to your enemies, to make you patient and long-suffering. In the past
you could only accomplish these things by making a great effort and
after years of hard moral training. Now, you swallow two or three
half-gramme tablets, and there you are. Anybody can be virtuous now. You
can carry at least half your morality about in a bottle. Christianity
without tears--that's what _soma_ is.'

'But the tears are necessary. Don't you remember what Othello said? "If
after every tempest come such calms, may the winds blow till they have
wakened death." There's a story one of the old Indians used to tell us,
about the Girl of Mátsaki. The young men who wanted to marry her had to
do a morning's hoeing in her garden. It seemed easy; but there were
flies and mosquitoes, magic ones. Most of the young men simply couldn't
stand the biting and stinging. But the one that could--he got the girl.'

'Charming! But in civilized countries,' said the Controller, 'you can
have girls without hoeing for them; and there aren't any flies or
mosquitoes to sting you. We got rid of them all centuries ago.'

The Savage nodded, frowning. 'You got rid of them. Yes, that's just like
you. Getting rid of everything unpleasant instead of learning to put up
with it. Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows
of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by
opposing end them.... But you don't do either. Neither suffer nor
oppose. You just abolish the slings and arrows. It's too easy.'

He was suddenly silent, thinking of his mother. In her room on the
thirty-seventh floor, Linda had floated in a sea of singing lights and
perfumed caresses--floated away, out of space, out of time, out of the
prison of her memories, her habits, her aged and bloated body. And
Tomakin, ex-Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning, Tomakin was still
on holiday--on holiday from humiliation and pain, in a world where he
could not hear those words, that derisive laughter, could not see that
hideous face, feel those moist and flabby arms round his neck, in a
beautiful world...

'What you need,' the Savage went on, 'is something _with_ tears for a
change. Nothing costs enough here.'

('Twelve and a half million dollars,' Henry Foster had protested when
the Savage told him that. 'Twelve and a half million--that's what the
new Conditioning Centre cost. Not a cent less.')

'Exposing what is mortal and unsure to all that fortune, death and
danger dare, even for an egg-shell. Isn't there something in that?' he
asked, looking up at Mustapha Mond. 'Quite apart from God--though of
course God would be a reason for it. Isn't t