 they go on to a
more advanced lesson.'

Roses and electric shocks, the khaki of Deltas and a whiff of
asafoetida--wedded indissolubly before the child can speak. But wordless
conditioning is crude and wholesale; cannot bring home the finer
distinctions, cannot inculcate the more complex courses of behaviour.
For that there must be words, but words without reason. In brief,
hypnopædia.

'The greatest moralizing and socializing force of all time.'

The students took it down in their little books. Straight from the
horse's mouth.

Once more the Director touched the switch.

'...so frightfully clever,' the soft, insinuating, indefatigable
voice was saying. 'I'm really awfully glad I'm a Beta, because...'

Not so much like drops of water, though water, it is true, can wear
holes in the hardest granite; rather, drops of liquid sealing-wax, drops
that adhere, incrust, incorporate themselves with what they fall on,
till finally the rock is all one scarlet blob.

'Till at last the child's mind _is_ these suggestions, and the sum of
the suggestions _is_ the child's mind. And not the child's mind only.
The adult's mind too--all his life long. The mind that judges and
desires and decides--made up of these suggestions. But all these
suggestions are _our_ suggestions!' The Director almost shouted in his
triumph. 'Suggestions from the State.' He banged the nearest table. 'It
therefore follows...'

A noise made him turn round.

'Oh, Ford!' he said in another tone, 'I've gone and woken the children.'




                              Chapter III




Outside, in the garden, it was playtime. Naked in the warm June
sunshine, six or seven hundred little boys and girls were running with
shrill yells over the lawns, or playing ball games, or squatting
silently in twos and threes among the flowering shrubs. The roses were
in bloom, two nightingales soliloquized in the boskage, a cuckoo was
just going out of tune among the lime trees. The air was drowsy with the
murmur of bees and helicopters.

The Director and his students stood for a short time watching a game of
Centrifugal Bumble-puppy. Twenty children were grouped in a circle round
a chrome-steel tower. A ball thrown up so as to land on the platform at
the top of the tower rolled down into the interior, fell on a rapidly
revolving disk, was hurled through one or other of the numerous
apertures pierced in the cylindrical casing, and had to be caught.

'Strange,' mused the Director, as they turned away, 'strange to think
that even in Our Ford's day most games were played without more
apparatus than a ball or two and a few sticks and perhaps a bit of
netting. Imagine the folly of allowing people to play elaborate games
which do nothing whatever to increase consumption. It's madness.
Nowadays the Controllers won't approve of any new game unless it can be
shown that it requires at least as much apparatus as the most
complicated of existing games.' He interrupted himself.

'That's a charming little group,' he said, pointing.

In a little grassy bay between tall clumps of Mediterranean heather, two
children, a little boy of about seven and a little girl who might have
been a year older, were playing, very gravely and with all the focussed
attention of scientists intent on a labour of discovery, a rudimentary
sexual game.

'Charming, charming!' the D.H.C. repeated sentimentally.

'Charming,' the boys politely agreed. But their smile was rather
patronizing. They had put aside similar childish amusements too recently
to be able to watch them now without a touch of contempt. Charming? but
it was just a pair of kids fooling about; that was all. Just kids.

'I always think,' the Director was continuing in the same rather maudlin
tone, when he was interrupted by a loud boo-hooing.

From a neighbouring shrubbery emerged a nurse, leading by the hand a
small boy, who howled as he went. An anxious-looking little girl trotted
at her heels.

'What's the matter?' asked the Director.

The nurse shrugged her shoulders. 'Nothing much,' she answered. 'It's
just that this little boy seems rather reluctant to join i