ur friends here, for example.' He
pointed.

'In spite of that awful work?'

'Awful? _They_ don't find it so. On the contrary, they like it. It's
light, it's childishly simple. No strain on the mind or the muscles.
Seven and a half hours of mild, unexhausting labour, and then the _soma_
ration and games and unrestricted copulation and the feelies. What more
can they ask for? True,' he added, 'they might ask for shorter hours.
And of course we could give them shorter hours. Technically, it would be
perfectly simple to reduce all lower-caste working hours to three or
four a day. But would they be any the happier for that? No, they
wouldn't. The experiment was tried, more than a century and a half ago.
The whole of Ireland was put on to the four-hour day. What was the
result? Unrest and a large increase in the consumption of _soma_; that
was all. Those three and a half hours of extra leisure were so far from
being a source of happiness, that people felt constrained to take a
holiday from them. The Inventions Office is stuffed with plans for
labour-saving processes. Thousands of them.' Mustapha Mond made a lavish
gesture. 'And why don't we put them into execution? For the sake of the
labourers; it would be sheer cruelty to afflict them with excessive
leisure. It's the same with agriculture. We could synthesize every
morsel of food, if we wanted to. But we don't. We prefer to keep a third
of the population on the land. For their own sakes--because it takes
_longer_ to get food out of the land than out of a factory. Besides, we
have our stability to think of. We don't want to change. Every change is
a menace to stability. That's another reason why we're so chary of
applying new inventions. Every discovery in pure science is potentially
subversive; even science must sometimes be treated as a possible enemy.
Yes, even science.'

Science? The Savage frowned. He knew the word. But what it exactly
signified he could not say. Shakespeare and the old men of the pueblo
had never mentioned science, and from Linda he had only gathered the
vaguest hints: science was something you made helicopters with,
something that caused you to laugh at the Corn Dances, something that
prevented you from being wrinkled and losing your teeth. He made a
desperate effort to take the Controller's meaning.

'Yes,' Mustapha Mond was saying, 'that's another item in the cost of
stability. It isn't only art that's incompatible with happiness; it's
also science. Science is dangerous; we have to keep it most carefully
chained and muzzled.'

'What?' said Helmholtz, in astonishment. 'But we're always saying that
science is everything. It's a hypnopædic platitude.'

'Three times a week between thirteen and seventeen,' put in Bernard.

'And all the science propaganda we do at the College...'

'Yes; but what sort of science?' asked Mustapha Mond sarcastically.
'You've had no scientific training, so you can't judge. I was a pretty
good physicist in my time. Too good--good enough to realize that all our
science is just a cookery book, with an orthodox theory of cooking that
nobody's allowed to question, and a list of recipes that mustn't be
added to except by special permission from the head cook. I'm the head
cook now. But I was an inquisitive young scullion once. I started doing
a bit of cooking on my own. Unorthodox cooking, illicit cooking. A bit
of real science, in fact.' He was silent.

'What happened?' asked Helmholtz Watson.

The Controller sighed. 'Very nearly what's going to happen to you young
men. I was on the point of being sent to an island.'

The words galvanized Bernard into a violent and unseemly activity. 'Send
_me_ to an island?' He jumped up, ran across the room, and stood
gesticulating in front of the Controller. 'You can't send _me_. I
haven't done anything. It was the others. I swear it was the others.' He
pointed accusingly to Helmholtz and the Savage. 'Oh, please don't send
me to Iceland. I promise I'll do what I ought to do. Give me another
chance. Please give me another chance.' The tears began to flow. 'I tell
you, it's their fault,' he sobbed