answering pressure of her hand. The tears started into
his eyes. He bent over her and kissed her.

Her lips moved. 'Popé!' she whispered again, and it was as though he had
had a pailful of ordure thrown in his face.

Anger suddenly boiled up in him. Balked for the second time, the passion
of his grief had found another outlet, was transformed into a passion of
agonized rage.

'But I'm John!' he shouted. 'I'm John!' And in his furious misery he
actually caught her by the shoulder and shook her.

Linda's eyes fluttered open; she saw him, knew him--'John!'--but
situated the real face, the real and violent hands, in an imaginary
world--among the inward and private equivalents of patchouli and the
Super-Wurlitzer, among the transfigured memories and the strangely
transposed sensations that constituted the universe of her dream. She
knew him for John, her son, but fancied him an intruder into that
paradisal Malpais where she had been spending her _soma_-holiday with
Popé. He was angry because she liked Popé, he was shaking her because
Popé was there in the bed--as though there were something wrong, as
though all civilized people didn't do the same? 'Every one belongs to
every...' Her voice suddenly died into an almost inaudible breathless
croaking, her mouth fell open: she made a desperate effort to fill her
lungs with air. But it was as though she had forgotten how to breathe.
She tried to cry out--but no sound came; only the terror of her staring
eyes revealed what she was suffering. Her hands went to her throat, then
clawed at the air--the air she could no longer breathe, the air that,
for her, had ceased to exist.

The Savage was on his feet, bent over her. 'What is it, Linda? What is
it?' His voice was imploring; it was as though he were begging to be
reassured.

The look she gave him was charged with an unspeakable terror--with
terror and, it seemed to him, reproach. She tried to raise herself in
bed, but fell back on to the pillows. Her face was horribly distorted,
her lips blue.

The Savage turned and ran up the ward.

'Quick, quick!' he shouted. 'Quick!'

Standing in the centre of a ring of zipper-hunting twins, the Head Nurse
looked round. The first moment's astonishment gave place almost
instantly to disapproval. 'Don't shout! Think of the little ones,' she
said, frowning. 'You might decondition... But what are you doing?' He
had broken through the ring. 'Be careful!' A child was yelling.

'Quick, quick!' He caught her by the sleeve, dragged her after him.
'Quick! Something's happened. I've killed her.'

By the time they were back at the end of the ward Linda was dead.

The Savage stood for a moment in frozen silence, then fell on his knees
beside the bed and, covering his face with his hands, sobbed
uncontrollably.

The nurse stood irresolute, looking now at the kneeling figure by the
bed (the scandalous exhibition!) and now (poor children!) at the twins
who had stopped their hunting of the zipper and were staring from the
other end of the ward, staring with all their eyes and nostrils at the
shocking scene that was being enacted round Bed 20. Should she speak to
him? try to bring him back to a sense of decency? remind him of where he
was? of what fatal mischief he might do to these poor innocents? Undoing
all their wholesome death-conditioning with this disgusting outcry--as
though death were something terrible, as though any one mattered as much
as all that! It might give them the most disastrous ideas about the
subject, might upset them into reacting in the entirely wrong, the
utterly anti-social way.

She stepped forward, she touched him on the shoulder. 'Can't you
behave?' she said in a low, angry voice. But, looking round, she saw
that half a dozen twins were already on their feet and advancing down
the ward. The circle was disintegrating. In another moment... No, the
risk was too great; the whole Group might be put back six or seven
months in its conditioning. She hurried back towards her menaced
charges.

'Now, who wants a chocolate éclair?' she asked in a loud, cheerful tone.

'Me!' yelled the entire Bokan