ished to see a young man standing outside
the abandoned lighthouse stripped to the waist and hitting himself with
a whip of knotted cords. His back was horizontally streaked with
crimson, and from weal to weal ran thin trickles of blood. The driver of
the lorry pulled up at the side of the road and, with his two
companions, stared open-mouthed at the extraordinary spectacle. One,
two, three--they counted the strokes. After the eighth, the young man
interrupted his self-punishment to run to the wood's edge and there be
violently sick. When he had finished, he picked up the whip and began
hitting himself again. Nine, ten, eleven, twelve...

'Ford!' whispered the driver. And his twins were of the same opinion.

'Fordey!' they said.

Three days later, like turkey buzzards settling on a corpse, the
reporters came.

Dried and hardened over a slow fire of green wood, the bow was ready.
The Savage was busy on his arrows. Thirty hazel sticks had been whittled
and dried, tipped with sharp nails, carefully nocked. He had made a raid
one night on the Puttenham poultry farm, and now had feathers enough to
equip a whole armoury. It was at work upon the feathering of his shafts
that the first of the reporters found him. Noiseless on his pneumatic
shoes, the man came up behind him.

'Good-morning, Mr. Savage,' he said. 'I am the representative of _The
Hourly Radio_.'

Startled as though by the bite of a snake, the Savage sprang to his
feet, scattering arrows, feathers, glue-pot and brush in all directions.

'I beg your pardon,' said the reporter, with genuine compunction. 'I had
no intention...' He touched his hat--the aluminium stove-pipe hat in
which he carried his wireless receiver and transmitter. 'Excuse my not
taking it off,' he said. 'It's a bit heavy. Well, as I was saying, I am
the representative of _The Hourly_...'

'What do you want?' asked the Savage, scowling. The reporter returned
his most ingratiating smile.

'Well, of course, our readers would be profoundly interested...' He
put his head on one side, his smile became almost coquettish. 'Just a
few words from you, Mr. Savage.' And rapidly, with a series of ritual
gestures, he uncoiled two wires connected to the portable battery
buckled round his waist; plugged them simultaneously into the sides of
his aluminium hat; touched a spring on the crown--and antennæ shot up
into the air; touched another spring on the peak of the brim--and, like
a jack-in-the-box, out jumped a microphone and hung there, quivering,
six inches in front of his nose; pulled down a pair of receivers over
his ears; pressed a switch on the left side of the hat--and from within
came a faint waspy buzzing; turned a knob on the right--and the buzzing
was interrupted by a stethoscopic wheeze and crackle, by hiccoughs and
sudden squeaks. 'Hullo,' he said to the microphone, 'hullo, hullo...'
A bell suddenly rang inside his hat. 'Is that you, Edzel? Primo Mellon
speaking. Yes, I've got hold of him. Mr. Savage will now take the
microphone and say a few words. Won't you, Mr. Savage?' He looked up at
the Savage with another of those winning smiles of his. 'Just tell our
readers why you came here. What made you leave London (hold on, Edzel!)
so very suddenly. And, of course, that whip.' (The Savage started. How
did they know about the whip?) 'We're all crazy to know about the whip.
And then something about Civilization. You know the sort of stuff. "What
I think of the Civilized Girl." Just a few words, a very few...'

The Savage obeyed with a disconcerting literalness. Five words he
uttered and no more--five words, the same as those he had said to
Bernard about the Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury. '_Háni! Sons
éso tse-ná!_' And seizing the reporter by the shoulder, he spun him
round (the young man revealed himself invitingly well-covered), aimed
and, with all the force and accuracy of a champion
foot-and-mouth-baller, delivered a most prodigious kick.

Eight minutes later, a new edition of _The Hourly Radio_ was on sale in
the streets of London. '=Hourly Radio Reporter has Coccyx kicked by
Mystery Savage=,' r