 everywhere a
focussing of interest, a narrow channelling of impulse and energy.

'But every one belongs to every one else,' he concluded, citing the
hypnopædic proverb.

The students nodded, emphatically agreeing with a statement which
upwards of sixty-two thousand repetitions in the dark had made them
accept, not merely as true, but as axiomatic, self-evident, utterly
indisputable.

****

'But after all,' Lenina was protesting, 'it's only about four months now
since I've been having Henry.'

'_Only_ four months! I like that. And what's more,' Fanny went on,
pointing an accusing finger, 'there's been nobody else except Henry all
that time. Has there?'

Lenina blushed scarlet; but her eyes, the tone of her voice remained
defiant. 'No, there hasn't been any one else,' she answered almost
truculently. 'And I jolly well don't see why there should have been.'

'Oh, she jolly well doesn't see why there should have been,' Fanny
repeated, as though to an invisible listener behind Lenina's left
shoulder. Then, with a sudden change of tone, 'But seriously,' she said,
'I really do think you ought to be careful. It's such horribly bad form
to go on and on like this with one man. At forty, or thirty-five, it
wouldn't be so bad. But at _your_ age, Lenina! No, it really won't do.
And you know how strongly the D.H.C. objects to anything intense or
long-drawn. Four months of Henry Foster, without having another
man--why, he'd be furious if he knew...'

****

'Think of water under pressure in a pipe.' They thought of it. 'I pierce
it once,' said the Controller. 'What a jet!'

He pierced it twenty times. There were twenty piddling little fountains.

'My baby. My baby...!'

'Mother!' The madness is infectious.

'My love, my one and only, precious, precious...'

Mother, monogamy, romance. High spurts the fountain; fierce and foamy
the wild jet. The urge has but a single outlet. My love, my baby. No
wonder those poor pre-moderns were mad and wicked and miserable. Their
world didn't allow them to take things easily, didn't allow them to be
sane, virtuous, happy. What with mothers and lovers, what with the
prohibitions they were not conditioned to obey, what with the
temptations and the lonely remorses, what with all the diseases and the
endless isolating pain, what with the uncertainties and the
poverty--they were forced to feel strongly. And feeling strongly (and
strongly, what was more, in solitude, in hopelessly individual
isolation), how could they be stable?

****

'Of course there's no need to give him up. Have somebody else from time
to time, that's all. He has other girls, doesn't he?'

Lenina admitted it.

'Of course he does. Trust Henry Foster to be the perfect
gentleman--always correct. And then there's the Director to think of.
You know what a stickler...'

Nodding, 'He patted me on the behind this afternoon,' said Lenina.

'There, you see!' Fanny was triumphant. 'That shows what _he_ stands
for. The strictest conventionality.'

****

'Stability,' said the Controller, 'stability. No civilization without
social stability. No social stability without individual stability.' His
voice was a trumpet. Listening, they felt larger, warmer.

The machine turns, turns and must keep on turning--for ever. It is death
if it stands still. A thousand millions scrabbled the crust of the
earth. The wheels began to turn. In a hundred and fifty years there were
two thousand millions. Stop all the wheels. In a hundred and fifty weeks
there are once more only a thousand millions; a thousand thousand
thousand men and women have starved to death.

Wheels must turn steadily, but cannot turn untended. There must be men
to tend them, men as steady as the wheels upon their axles, sane men,
obedient men, stable in contentment.

Crying: My baby, my mother, my only, only love; groaning: My sin, my
terrible God; screaming with pain, muttering with fever, bemoaning old
age and poverty--how can they tend the wheels? And if they cannot tend
the wheels... The corpses of a thousand thousand thousand men and
women would be hard to bury or burn.

****

'And after all,'