****

'The Savage,' wrote Bernard, 'refuses to take _soma_, and seems much
distressed because the woman Linda, his m----, remains permanently on
holiday. It is worthy of note that, in spite of his m----'s senility and
the extreme repulsiveness of her appearance, the Savage frequently goes
to see her and appears to be much attached to her--an interesting
example of the way in which early conditioning can be made to modify and
even run counter to natural impulses (in this case, the impulse to
recoil from an unpleasant object).'

****

At Eton they alighted on the roof of Upper School. On the opposite side
of School Yard, the fifty-two stories of Lupton's Tower gleamed white in
the sunshine. College on their left and, on their right, the School
Community Singery reared their venerable piles of ferro-concrete and
vita-glass. In the centre of the quadrangle stood the quaint old
chrome-steel statue of Our Ford.

Dr. Gaffney, the Provost, and Miss Keate, the Head Mistress, received
them as they stepped out of the plane.

'Do you have many twins here?' the Savage asked rather apprehensively,
as they set out on their tour of inspection.

'Oh no,' the Provost answered. 'Eton is reserved exclusively for
upper-caste boys and girls. One egg, one adult. It makes education more
difficult, of course. But as they'll be called upon to take
responsibilities and deal with unexpected emergencies, it can't be
helped.' He sighed.

Bernard, meanwhile, had taken a strong fancy to Miss Keate. 'If you're
free any Monday, Wednesday, or Friday evening,' he was saying. Jerking
his thumb towards the Savage, 'He's curious, you know,' Bernard added.
'Quaint.'

Miss Keate smiled (and her smile was really charming, he thought); said
Thank you; would be delighted to come to one of his parties. The Provost
opened a door.

Five minutes in that Alpha-Double-Plus classroom left John a trifle
bewildered.

'What _is_ elementary relativity?' he whispered to Bernard. Bernard
tried to explain, then thought better of it and suggested that they
should go to some other classroom.

From behind a door in the corridor leading to the Beta-Minus geography
room, a ringing soprano voice called, 'One, two, three, four,' and then,
with a weary impatience, 'As you were.'

'Malthusian Drill,' explained the Head Mistress. 'Most of our girls are
freemartins, of course. I'm a freemartin myself.' She smiled at Bernard.
'But we have about eight hundred unsterilized ones who need constant
drilling.'

In the Beta-Minus geography room John learnt that 'a savage reservation
is a place which, owing to unfavourable climatic or geological
conditions, or poverty of natural resources, has not been worth the
expense of civilizing.' A click; the room was darkened; and suddenly, on
the screen above the Master's head, there were the _Penitentes_ of Acoma
prostrating themselves before Our Lady, and wailing as John had heard
them wail, confessing their sins before Jesus on the cross, before the
eagle image of Pookong. The young Etonians fairly shouted with laughter.
Still wailing, the _Penitentes_ rose to their feet, stripped off their
upper garments and, with knotted whips, began to beat themselves, blow
after blow. Redoubled, the laughter drowned even the amplified record of
their groans.

'But why do they laugh?' asked the Savage in a pained bewilderment.

'Why?' The Provost turned towards him a still broadly grinning face.
'_Why?_ But because it's so extraordinarily funny.'

In the cinematographic twilight, Bernard risked a gesture which, in the
past, even total darkness would hardly have emboldened him to make.
Strong in his new importance, he put his arm round the Head Mistress's
waist. It yielded, willowily. He was just about to snatch a kiss or two
and perhaps a gentle pinch, when the shutters clicked open again.

'Perhaps we had better go on,' said Miss Keate, and moved towards the
door.

'And this,' said the Provost a moment later, 'is the Hypnopædic Control
Room.'

Hundreds of synthetic music boxes, one for each dormitory, stood ranged
in shelves round three sides of the room; pigeon-hol