y sententiously. But it was obvious
that her confidence in her own prescriptions had been shaken. 'Nothing
can be achieved without perseverance.'

'But meanwhile...'

'Don't think of him.'

'I can't help it.'

'Take _soma_, then.'

'I do.'

'Well, go on.'

'But in the intervals I still like him. I shall always like him.'

'Well, if that's the case,' said Fanny, with decision, 'why don't you
just go and take him. Whether he wants it or no.'

'But if you knew how terribly _queer_ he was!'

'All the more reason for taking a firm line.'

'It's all very well to _say_ that.'

'Don't stand any nonsense. Act.' Fanny's voice was a trumpet; she might
have been a Y.W.F.A. lecturer giving an evening talk to adolescent
Beta-Minuses. 'Yes, act--at once. Do it now.'

'I'd be scared,' said Lenina.

'Well, you've only got to take half a gramme of _soma_ first. And now
I'm going to have my bath.' She marched off, trailing her towel.

****

The bell rang, and the Savage, who was impatiently hoping that Helmholtz
would come that afternoon (for having at last made up his mind to talk
to Helmholtz about Lenina, he could not bear to postpone his confidences
a moment longer), jumped up and ran to the door.

'I had a premonition it was you, Helmholtz,' he shouted as he opened.

On the threshold, in a white acetate-satin sailor suit, and with a round
white cap rakishly tilted over her left ear, stood Lenina.

'Oh!' said the Savage, as though some one had struck him a heavy blow.

Half a gramme had been enough to make Lenina forget her fears and her
embarrassments. 'Hullo, John,' she said, smiling, and walked past him
into the room. Automatically he closed the door and followed her. Lenina
sat down. There was a long silence.

'You don't seem very glad to see me, John,' she said at last.

'Not glad?' The Savage looked at her reproachfully; then suddenly fell
on his knees before her and, taking Lenina's hand, reverently kissed it.
'Not glad? Oh, if you only knew,' he whispered, and, venturing to raise
his eyes to her face, 'Admired Lenina,' he went on, 'indeed the top of
admiration, worth what's dearest in the world.' She smiled at him with a
luscious tenderness. 'Oh, you so perfect' (she was leaning towards him
with parted lips), 'so perfect and so peerless are created' (nearer and
nearer) 'of every creature's best.' Still nearer. The Savage suddenly
scrambled to his feet. 'That's why,' he said, speaking with averted
face,' I wanted to _do_ something first... I mean, to show I was
worthy of you. Not that I could ever really be that. But at any rate to
show I wasn't absolutely _un_worthy. I wanted to do _something_.'

'Why should you think it necessary...' Lenina began, but left the
sentence unfinished. There was a note of irritation in her voice. When
one has leant forward, nearer and nearer, with parted lips--only to find
oneself, quite suddenly, as a clumsy oaf scrambles to his feet, leaning
towards nothing at all--well, there is a reason, even with half a gramme
of _soma_ circulating in one's blood-stream, a genuine reason for
annoyance.

'At Malpais,' the Savage was incoherently mumbling, 'you had to bring
her the skin of a mountain lion--I mean, when you wanted to marry some
one. Or else a wolf.'

'There aren't any lions in England,' Lenina almost snapped.

'And even if there were,' the Savage added, with sudden contemptuous
resentment, 'people would kill them out of helicopters, I suppose, with
poison gas or something. I wouldn't do _that_, Lenina.' He squared his
shoulders, he ventured to look at her and was met with a stare of
annoyed incomprehension. Confused, 'I'll do anything,' he went on, more
and more incoherently. 'Anything you tell me. There be some sports are
painful--you know. But their labour delight in them sets off. That's
what I feel. I mean I'd sweep the floor if you wanted.'

'But we've got vacuum cleaners here,' said Lenina in bewilderment. 'It
isn't necessary.'

'No, of course it isn't _necessary_. But some kinds of baseness are
nobly undergone. I'd like to undergo something nobly. Don't you see?'

'But if there _are_ vacuu