reat
moment had come--the greatest, Darwin Bonaparte had time to reflect, as
he moved among his instruments, the greatest since his taking of the
famous all-howling stereoscopic feely of the gorillas' wedding.
'Splendid,' he said to himself, as the Savage started his astonishing
performance. 'Splendid!' He kept his telescopic cameras carefully
aimed--glued to their moving objective; clapped on a higher power to get
a close-up of the frantic and distorted face (admirable!); switched
over, for half a minute, to slow motion (an exquisitely comical effect,
he promised himself); listened in, meanwhile, to the blows, the groans,
the wild and raving words that were being recorded on the sound-track at
the edge of his film, tried the effect of a little amplification (yes,
that was decidedly better); was delighted to hear, in a momentary lull,
the shrill singing of a lark; wished the Savage would turn round so that
he could get a good close-up of the blood on his back--and almost
instantly (what astonishing luck!) the accommodating fellow did turn
round, and he was able to take a perfect close-up.

'Well, that was grand!' he said to himself when it was all over. 'Really
grand!' He mopped his face. When they had put in the feely effects at
the studio, it would be a wonderful film. Almost as good, thought Darwin
Bonaparte, as the _Sperm Whale's Love-Life_--and that, by Ford, was
saying a good deal!

Twelve days later _The Savage of Surrey_ had been released and could be
seen, heard and felt in every first-class feely-palace in Western
Europe.

The effect of Darwin Bonaparte's film was immediate and enormous. On the
afternoon which followed the evening of its release, John's rustic
solitude was suddenly broken by the arrival overhead of a great swarm of
helicopters.

He was digging in his garden--digging, too, in his own mind, laboriously
turning up the substance of his thought. Death--and he drove in his
spade once, and again, and yet again. And all our yesterdays have
lighted fools the way to dusty death. A convincing thunder rumbled
through the words. He lifted another spadeful of earth. Why had Linda
died? Why had she been allowed to become gradually less than human and
at last... He shuddered. A good kissing carrion. He planted his foot
on his spade and stamped it fiercely into the tough ground. As flies to
wanton boys are we to the gods; they kill us for their sport. Thunder
again; words that proclaimed themselves true--truer somehow than truth
itself. And yet that same Gloucester had called them ever-gentle gods.
Besides, thy best of rest is sleep, and that thou oft provok'st; yet
grossly fear'st thy death which is no more. No more than sleep. Sleep.
Perchance to dream. His spade struck against a stone; he stooped to pick
it up. For in that sleep of death, what dreams?...

A humming overhead had become a roar; and suddenly he was in shadow,
there was something between the sun and him. He looked up, startled,
from his digging, from his thoughts; looked up in a dazzled
bewilderment, his mind still wandering in that other world of
truer-than-truth, still focussed on the immensities of death and deity;
looked up and saw, close above him, the swarm of hovering machines. Like
locusts they came, hung poised, descended all around him on the heather.
And from out of the bellies of these giant grasshoppers stepped men in
white viscose-flannels, women (for the weather was hot) in
acetate-shantung pyjamas or velveteen shorts and sleeveless,
half-unzippered singlets--one couple from each. In a few minutes there
were dozens of them, standing in a wide circle round the lighthouse,
staring, laughing, clicking their cameras, throwing (as to an ape)
pea-nuts, packets of sex-hormone chewing-gum, pan-glandular _petits
beurres_. And every moment--for across the Hog's Back the stream of
traffic now flowed unceasingly--their numbers increased. As in a
nightmare, the dozens became scores, the scores hundreds.

The Savage had retreated towards cover, and now, in the posture of an
animal at bay, stood with his back to the wall of the lighthouse,
stari