 a criss-cross of walls; and on three sides the precipices
fell sheer into the plain. A few columns of smoke mounted
perpendicularly into the windless air and were lost.

'Queer,' said Lenina. 'Very queer.' It was her ordinary word of
condemnation. 'I don't like it. And I don't like that man.' She pointed
to the Indian guide who had been appointed to take them up to the
pueblo. Her feeling was evidently reciprocated; the very back of the
man, as he walked along before them, was hostile, sullenly contemptuous.

'Besides,' she lowered her voice, 'he smells.'

Bernard did not attempt to deny it. They walked on.

Suddenly it was as though the whole air had come alive and were pulsing,
pulsing with the indefatigable movement of blood. Up there, in Malpais,
the drums were being beaten. Their feet fell in with the rhythm of that
mysterious heart; they quickened their pace. Their path led them to the
foot of the precipice. The sides of the great mesa ship towered over
them, three hundred feet to the gunwale.

'I wish we could have brought the plane,' said Lenina, looking up
resentfully at the blank impending rock-face. 'I hate walking. And you
feel so small when you're on the ground at the bottom of a hill.'

They walked along for some way in the shadow of the mesa, rounded a
projection, and there, in a water-worn ravine, was the way up the
companion ladder. They climbed. It was a very steep path that zigzagged
from side to side of the gulley. Sometimes the pulsing of the drums was
all but inaudible, at others they seemed to be beating only just round
the corner.

When they were half-way up, an eagle flew past so close to them that the
wind of his wings blew chill on their faces. In a crevice of the rock
lay a pile of bones. It was all oppressively queer, and the Indian smelt
stronger and stronger. They emerged at last from the ravine into the
full sunlight. The top of the mesa was a flat deck of stone.

'Like the Charing-T Tower,' was Lenina's comment. But she was not
allowed to enjoy her discovery of this reassuring resemblance for long.
A padding of soft feet made them turn round. Naked from throat to navel,
their dark-brown bodies painted with white lines ('like asphalt tennis
courts,' Lenina was later to explain), their faces inhuman with daubings
of scarlet, black and ochre, two Indians came running along the path.
Their black hair was braided with fox fur and red flannel. Cloaks of
turkey feathers fluttered from their shoulders; huge feather diadems
exploded gaudily round their heads. With every step they took came the
clink and rattle of their silver bracelets, their heavy necklaces of
bone and turquoise beads. They came on without a word, running quietly
in their deerskin moccasins. One of them was holding a feather brush;
the other carried, in either hand, what looked at a distance like three
or four pieces of thick rope. One of the ropes writhed uneasily, and
suddenly Lenina saw that they were snakes.

The men came nearer and nearer; their dark eyes looked at her, but
without giving any sign of recognition, any smallest sign that they had
seen her or were aware of her existence. The writhing snake hung limp
again with the rest. The men passed.

'I don't like it,' said Lenina. 'I don't like it.'

She liked even less what awaited her at the entrance to the pueblo,
where their guide had left them while he went inside for instructions.
The dirt, to start with, the piles of rubbish, the dust, the dogs, the
flies. Her face wrinkled up into a grimace of disgust. She held her
handkerchief to her nose.

'But how can they live like this?' she broke out in a voice of indignant
incredulity. (It wasn't possible.)

Bernard shrugged his shoulders philosophically. 'Anyhow,' he said,
'they've been doing it for the last five or six thousand years. So I
suppose they must be used to it by now.'

'But cleanliness is next to fordliness,' she insisted.

'Yes, and civilization is sterilization,' Bernard went on, concluding on
a tone of irony the second hypnopædic lesson in elementary hygiene. 'But
these people have never heard of Our Ford, a