o,'
he repeated, 'I'm busy.' And he held resolutely on his course. The girls
trailed after him. It was not till he had actually climbed into
Bernard's plane and slammed the door that they gave up pursuit. Not
without reproaches.

'These women!' he said, as the machine rose into the air. 'These women!'
And he shook his head, he frowned. 'Too awful.' Bernard hypocritically
agreed, wishing, as he spoke the words, that he could have as many girls
as Helmholtz did, and with as little trouble. He was seized with a
sudden urgent need to boast. 'I'm taking Lenina Crowne to New Mexico
with me,' he said in a tone as casual as he could make it.

'Are you?' said Helmholtz, with a total absence of interest. Then after
a little pause, 'This last week or two,' he went on, 'I've been cutting
all my committees and all my girls. You can't imagine what a hullabaloo
they've been making about it at the College. Still, it's been worth it,
I think. The effects...' He hesitated. 'Well, they're odd, they're
very odd.'

A physical shortcoming could produce a kind of mental excess. The
process, it seemed, was reversible. Mental excess could produce, for its
own purposes, the voluntary blindness and deafness of deliberate
solitude, the artificial impotence of asceticism.

The rest of the short flight was accomplished in silence. When they had
arrived and were comfortably stretched out on the pneumatic sofas in
Bernard's room, Helmholtz began again.

Speaking very slowly, 'Did you ever feel,' he asked, 'as though you had
something inside you that was only waiting for you to give it a chance
to come out? Some sort of extra power that you aren't using--you know,
like all the water that goes down the falls instead of through the
turbines?' He looked at Bernard questioningly.

'You mean all the emotions one might be feeling if things were
different?'

Helmholtz shook his head. 'Not quite. I'm thinking of a queer feeling I
sometimes get, a feeling that I've got something important to say and
the power to say it--only I don't know what it is, and I can't make any
use of the power. If there was some different way of writing... Or
else something else to write about...' He was silent; then, 'You
see,' he went on at last, 'I'm pretty good at inventing phrases--you
know, the sort of words that suddenly make you jump, almost as though
you'd sat on a pin, they seem so new and exciting even though they're
about something hypnopædically obvious. But that doesn't seem enough.
It's not enough for the phrases to be good; what you make with them
ought to be good too.'

'But your things are good, Helmholtz.'

'Oh, as far as they go.' Helmholtz shrugged his shoulders. 'But they go
such a little way. They aren't important enough, somehow. I feel I could
do something much more important. Yes, and more intense, more violent.
But what? What is there more important to say? And how can one be
violent about the sort of things one's expected to write about? Words
can be like X-rays, if you use them properly--they'll go through
anything. You read and you're pierced. That's one of the things I try to
teach my students--how to write piercingly. But what on earth's the good
of being pierced by an article about a Community Sing, or the latest
improvement in scent organs? Besides, can you make words really
piercing--you know, like the very hardest X-rays--when you're writing
about that sort of thing? Can you say something about nothing? That's
what it finally boils down to. I try and I try...'

'Hush!' said Bernard suddenly, and lifted a warning finger; they
listened. 'I believe there's somebody at the door,' he whispered.

Helmholtz got up, tiptoed across the room, and with a sharp quick
movement flung the door wide open. There was, of course, nobody there.

'I'm sorry,' said Bernard, feeling and looking uncomfortably foolish. 'I
suppose I've got things on my nerves a bit. When people are suspicious
with you, you start being suspicious with them.'

He passed his hand across his eyes, he sighed, his voice became
plaintive. He was justifying himself. 'If you knew what I'd had to put
u