dy.
Doesn't it make you feel like that, Lenina?'

But Lenina was crying. 'It's horrible, it's horrible,' she kept
repeating. 'And how can you talk like that about not wanting to be a
part of the social body? After all, every one works for every one else.
We can't do without any one. Even Epsilons...'

'Yes, I know,' said Bernard derisively. '"Even Epsilons are useful"! So
am I. And I damned well wish I weren't!'

Lenina was shocked by his blasphemy. 'Bernard!' she protested in a voice
of amazed distress. 'How can you?'

In a different key, 'How can I?' he repeated meditatively. 'No, the real
problem is: How is it that I can't, or rather--because, after all, I
know quite well why I can't--what would it be like if I could, if I were
free--not enslaved by my conditioning.'

'But, Bernard, you're saying the most awful things.'

'Don't you wish you were free, Lenina?'

'I don't know what you mean. I am free. Free to have the most wonderful
time. Everybody's happy nowadays.'

He laughed, 'Yes, "Everybody's happy nowadays." We begin giving the
children that at five. But wouldn't you like to be free to be happy in
some other way, Lenina? In your own way, for example; not in everybody
else's way.'

'I don't know what you mean,' she repeated. Then, turning to him, 'Oh,
do let's go back, Bernard,' she besought; 'I do so hate it here.'

'Don't you like being with me?'

'But of course, Bernard! It's this horrible place.'

'I thought we'd be more... more _together_ here--with nothing but the
sea and moon. More together than in that crowd, or even in my rooms.
Don't you understand that?'

'I don't understand anything,' she said with decision, determined to
preserve her incomprehension intact. 'Nothing. Least of all,' she
continued in another tone, 'why you don't take _soma_ when you have
these dreadful ideas of yours. You'd forget all about them. And instead
of feeling miserable, you'd be jolly. _So_ jolly,' she repeated and
smiled, for all the puzzled anxiety in her eyes, with what was meant to
be an inviting and voluptuous cajolery.

He looked at her in silence, his face unresponsive and very
grave--looked at her intently. After a few seconds Lenina's eyes
flinched away; she uttered a nervous little laugh, tried to think of
something to say and couldn't. The silence prolonged itself.

When Bernard spoke at last, it was in a small tired voice. 'All right
then,' he said, 'we'll go back.' And stepping hard on the accelerator,
he sent the machine rocketing up into the sky. At four thousand he
started his propeller. They flew in silence for a minute or two. Then,
suddenly, Bernard began to laugh. Rather oddly, Lenina thought; but
still, it was laughter.

'Feeling better?' she ventured to ask.

For answer, he lifted one hand from the controls and, slipping his arm
round her, began to fondle her breasts.

'Thank Ford,' she said to herself, 'he's all right again.'

Half an hour later they were back in his rooms. Bernard swallowed four
tablets of _soma_ at a gulp, turned on the radio and television and
began to undress.

'Well,' Lenina enquired, with significant archness when they met next
afternoon on the roof, 'did you think it was fun yesterday?'

Bernard nodded. They climbed into the plane. A little jolt, and they
were off.

'Every one says I'm awfully pneumatic,' said Lenina reflectively,
patting her own legs.

'Awfully.' But there was an expression of pain in Bernard's eyes. 'Like
meat,' he was thinking.

She looked up with a certain anxiety. 'But you don't think I'm _too_
plump, do you?'

He shook his head. Like so much meat.

'You think I'm all right.' Another nod. 'In every way?'

'Perfect,' he said aloud. And inwardly, 'She thinks of herself that way.
She doesn't mind being meat.'

Lenina smiled triumphantly. But her satisfaction was premature.

'All the same,' he went on, after a little pause, 'I still rather wish
it had all ended differently.'

'Differently?' Were there other endings?

'I didn't want it to end with our going to bed,' he specified.

Lenina was astonished.

'Not at once, not the first day.'

'But then what...?'

He 