here something in living
dangerously?'

'There's a great deal in it,' the Controller replied. 'Men and women
must have their adrenals stimulated from time to time.'

'What?' questioned the Savage, uncomprehending.

'It's one of the conditions of perfect health. That's why we've made the
V.P.S. treatments compulsory.'

'V.P.S.?'

'Violent Passion Surrogate. Regularly once a month. We flood the whole
system with adrenin. It's the complete physiological equivalent of fear
and rage. All the tonic effects of murdering Desdemona and being
murdered by Othello, without any of the inconveniences.'

'But I like the inconveniences.'

'We don't,' said the Controller. 'We prefer to do things comfortably.'

'But I don't want comfort. I want God, I want poetry, I want real
danger, I want freedom, I want goodness. I want sin.'

'In fact,' said Mustapha Mond, 'you're claiming the right to be
unhappy.'

'All right, then,' said the Savage defiantly, 'I'm claiming the right to
be unhappy.'

'Not to mention the right to grow old and ugly and impotent; the right
to have syphilis and cancer; the right to have too little to eat; the
right to be lousy; the right to live in constant apprehension of what
may happen to-morrow; the right to catch typhoid; the right to be
tortured by unspeakable pains of every kind.'

There was a long silence.

'I claim them all,' said the Savage at last.

Mustapha Mond shrugged his shoulders. 'You're welcome,' he said.




                             Chapter XVIII




The door was ajar; they entered.

'John!'

From the bathroom came an unpleasant and characteristic sound.

'Is there anything the matter?' Helmholtz called.

There was no answer. The unpleasant sound was repeated, twice; there was
silence. Then, with a click, the bathroom door opened and, very pale,
the Savage emerged.

'I say,' Helmholtz exclaimed solicitously, 'you _do_ look ill, John!'

'Did you eat something that didn't agree with you?' asked Bernard.

The Savage nodded. 'I ate civilization.'

'What?'

'It poisoned me; I was defiled. And then,' he added, in a lower tone, 'I
ate my own wickedness.'

'Yes, but what exactly?... I mean, just now you were...'

'Now I am purified,' said the Savage. 'I drank some mustard and warm
water.'

The others stared at him in astonishment. 'Do you mean to say that you
were doing it on purpose?' asked Bernard.

'That's how the Indians always purify themselves.' He sat down and,
sighing, passed his hand across his forehead. 'I shall rest for a few
minutes,' he said. 'I'm rather tired.'

'Well, I'm not surprised,' said Helmholtz. After a silence, 'We've come
to say good-bye,' he went on in another tone. 'We're off to-morrow
morning.'

'Yes, we're off to-morrow,' said Bernard, on whose face the Savage
remarked a new expression of determined resignation. 'And by the way,
John,' he continued, leaning forward in his chair and laying a hand on
the Savage's knee, 'I want to say how sorry I am about everything that
happened yesterday.' He blushed. 'How ashamed,' he went on, in spite of
the unsteadiness of his voice, 'how really...'

The Savage cut him short and, taking his hand, affectionately pressed
it.

'Helmholtz was wonderful to me,' Bernard resumed, after a little pause.
'If it hadn't been for him, I should...'

'Now, now,' Helmholtz protested.

There was a silence. In spite of their sadness--because of it, even; for
their sadness was the symptom of their love for one another--the three
young men were happy.

'I went to see the Controller this morning,' said the Savage at last.

'What for?'

'To ask if I mightn't go to the islands with you.'

'And what did he say?' asked Helmholtz eagerly.

The Savage shook his head. 'He wouldn't let me.'

'Why not?'

'He said he wanted to go on with the experiment. But I'm damned,' the
Savage added, with sudden fury, 'I'm damned if I'll go on being
experimented with. Not for all the Controllers in the world. _I_ shall
go away to-morrow too.'

'But where?' the others asked in unison.

The Savage shrugged his shoulders. 'Anywhere. I don't care. So long as I
can be alone.'

****

From G