ng from face to face in speechless horror, like a man out of his
senses.

From this stupor he was aroused to a more immediate sense of reality by
the impact on his cheek of a well-aimed packet of chewing-gum. A shock
of startling pain--and he was broad awake, awake and fiercely angry.

'Go away!' he shouted.

The ape had spoken; there was a burst of laughter and hand-clapping.
'Good old Savage! Hurrah, hurrah!' And through the babel he heard cries
of: 'Whip, whip, the whip!'

Acting on the word's suggestion, he seized the bunch of knotted cords
from its nail behind the door and shook it at his tormentors.

There was a yell of ironical applause.

Menacingly he advanced towards them. A woman cried out in fear. The line
wavered at its most immediately threatened point, then stiffened again,
stood firm. The consciousness of being in overwhelming force had given
these sightseers a courage which the Savage had not expected of them.
Taken aback, he halted and looked round.

'Why don't you leave me alone?' There was an almost plaintive note in
his anger.

'Have a few magnesium-salted almonds!' said the man who, if the Savage
were to advance, would be the first to be attacked. He held out a
packet. 'They're really very good, you know,' he added, with a rather
nervous smile of propitiation. 'And the magnesium salts will help to
keep you young.'

The Savage ignored his offer. 'What do you want with me?' he asked,
turning from one grinning face to another. 'What do you want with me?'

'The whip,' answered a hundred voices confusedly. 'Do the whipping
stunt. Let's see the whipping stunt.'

Then, in unison and on a slow, heavy rhythm, 'We--want--the whip,'
shouted a group at the end of the line. 'We--want--the whip.'

Others at once took up the cry, and the phrase was repeated,
parrot-fashion, again and again, with an ever-growing volume of sound,
until, by the seventh or eighth reiteration, no other word was being
spoken. 'We--want--the whip.'

They were all crying together; and, intoxicated by the noise, the
unanimity, the sense of rhythmical atonement, they might, it seemed,
have gone on for hours--almost indefinitely. But at about the
twenty-fifth repetition the proceedings were startlingly interrupted.
Yet another helicopter had arrived from across the Hog's Back, hung
poised above the crowd, then dropped within a few yards of where the
Savage was standing, in the open space between the line of sightseers
and the lighthouse. The roar of the air screws momentarily drowned the
shouting; then, as the machine touched the ground and the engines were
turned off: 'We--want--the whip; we--want--the whip,' broke out again in
the same loud, insistent monotone.

The door of the helicopter opened, and out stepped, first a fair and
ruddy-faced young man, then, in green velveteen shorts, white shirt, and
jockey cap, a young woman.

At the sight of the young woman, the Savage started, recoiled, turned
pale.

The young woman stood, smiling at him--an uncertain, imploring, almost
abject smile. The seconds passed. Her lips moved, she was saying
something; but the sound of her voice was covered by the loud reiterated
refrain of the sightseers.

'We--want--the whip! We--want--the whip!'

The young woman pressed both hands to her left side, and on that
peach-bright, doll-beautiful face of hers appeared a strangely
incongruous expression of yearning distress. Her blue eyes seemed to
grow larger, brighter; and suddenly two tears rolled down her cheeks.
Inaudibly, she spoke again; then, with a quick, impassioned gesture
stretched out her arms towards the Savage, stepped forward.

'We--want--the whip! We--want...'

And all of a sudden they had what they wanted.

'Strumpet!' The Savage had rushed at her like a madman. 'Fitchew!' Like
a madman, he was slashing at her with his whip of small cords.

Terrified, she had turned to flee, had tripped and fallen in the
heather. 'Henry, Henry!' she shouted. But her ruddy-faced companion had
bolted out of harm's way behind the helicopter.

With a whoop of delighted excitement the line broke; there was a
convergent s