he rate of
thirty-three and a third centimetres an hour. Two hundred and
sixty-seven days at eight metres a day. Two thousand one hundred and
thirty-six metres in all. One circuit of the cellar at ground level, one
on the first gallery, half on the second, and on the two hundred and
sixty-seventh morning, daylight in the Decanting Room. Independent
existence--so called.

'But in the interval,' Mr. Foster concluded, 'we've managed to do a lot
to them. Oh, a very great deal.' His laugh was knowing and triumphant.

'That's the spirit I like,' said the Director once more. 'Let's walk
round. You tell them everything, Mr. Foster.'

Mr. Foster duly told them.

Told them of the growing embryo on its bed of peritoneum. Made them
taste the rich blood surrogate on which it fed. Explained why it had to
be stimulated with placentin and thyroxin. Told them of the _corpus
luteum_ extract. Showed them the jets through which at every twelfth
metre from zero to 2040 it was automatically injected. Spoke of those
gradually increasing doses of pituitary administered during the final
ninety-six metres of their course. Described the artificial maternal
circulation installed on every bottle at metres 112; showed them the
reservoir of blood-surrogate, the centrifugal pump that kept the liquid
moving over the placenta and drove it through the synthetic lung and
waste-product filter. Referred to the embryo's troublesome tendency to
anæmia, to the massive doses of hog's stomach extract and foetal foal's
liver with which, in consequence, it had to be supplied.

Showed them the simple mechanism by means of which, during the last two
metres out of every eight, all the embryos were simultaneously shaken
into familiarity with movement. Hinted at the gravity of the so-called
'trauma of decanting,' and enumerated the precautions taken to minimize,
by a suitable training of the bottled embryo, that dangerous shock. Told
them of the tests for sex carried out in the neighbourhood of metre 200.
Explained the system of labelling--a T for the males, a circle for the
females and for those who were destined to become freemartins a question
mark, black on a white ground.

'For of course,' said Mr. Foster, 'in the vast majority of cases,
fertility is merely a nuisance. One fertile ovary in twelve
hundred--that would really be quite sufficient for our purposes. But we
want to have a good choice. And of course one must always leave an
enormous margin of safety. So we allow as many as thirty per cent. of
the female embryos to develop normally. The others get a dose of male
sex-hormone every twenty-four metres for the rest of the course. Result:
they're decanted as freemartins--structurally quite normal (except,' he
had to admit, 'that they _do_ have just the slightest tendency to grow
beards), but sterile. Guaranteed sterile. Which brings us at last,'
continued Mr. Foster, 'out of the realm of mere slavish imitation of
nature into the much more interesting world of human invention.'

He rubbed his hands. For, of course, they didn't content themselves with
merely hatching out embryos: any cow could do that.

'We also predestine and condition. We decant our babies as socialized
human beings, as Alphas or Epsilons, as future sewage workers or
future...' He was going to say 'future World Controllers,' but
correcting himself, said 'future Directors of Hatcheries' instead.

The D.H.C. acknowledged the compliment with a smile.

They were passing metre 320 on rack eleven. A young Beta-Minus mechanic
was busy with screw-driver and spanner on the blood-surrogate pump of a
passing bottle. The hum of the electric motor deepened by fractions of a
tone as he turned the nuts. Down, down... A final twist, a glance at
the revolution-counter, and he was done. He moved two paces down the
line and began the same process on the next pump.

'Reducing the number of revolutions per minute,' Mr. Foster explained.
'The surrogate goes round slower; therefore passes through the lung at
longer intervals; therefore gives the embryo less oxygen. Nothing like
oxygen-shortage for keeping an embryo be