nd departure of helicopters.

'My word,' said Lenina, 'I'm glad I'm not a Gamma.'

Ten minutes later they were at Stoke Poges and had started their first
round of Obstacle Golf.


                                  § 2

With eyes for the most part downcast and, if ever they lighted on a
fellow creature, at once and furtively averted, Bernard hastened across
the roof. He was like a man pursued, but pursued by enemies he does not
wish to see, lest they should seem more hostile even than he had
supposed, and he himself be made to feel guiltier and even more
helplessly alone.

'That horrible Benito Hoover!' And yet the man had meant well enough.
Which only made it, in a way, much worse. Those who meant well behaved
in the same way as those who meant badly. Even Lenina was making him
suffer. He remembered those weeks of timid indecision, during which he
had looked and longed and despaired of ever having the courage to ask
her. Dared he face the risk of being humiliated by a contemptuous
refusal? But if she were to say yes, what rapture! Well, now she had
said it and he was still wretched--wretched that she should have thought
it such a perfect afternoon for Obstacle Golf, that she should have
trotted away to join Henry Foster, that she should have found him funny
for not wanting to talk of their most private affairs in public.
Wretched, in a word, because she had behaved as any healthy and virtuous
English girl ought to behave and not in some other, abnormal,
extraordinary way.

He opened the door of his lock-up and called to a lounging couple of
Delta-Minus attendants to come and push his machine out on to the roof.
The hangars were staffed by a single Bokanovsky Group, and the men were
twins, identically small, black and hideous. Bernard gave his orders in
the sharp, rather arrogant and even offensive tone of one who does not
feel himself too secure in his superiority. To have dealings with
members of the lower castes was always, for Bernard, a most distressing
experience. For whatever the cause (and the current gossip about the
alcohol in his blood-surrogate may very likely--for accidents will
happen--have been true) Bernard's physique was hardly better than that
of the average Gamma. He stood eight centimetres short of the standard
Alpha height and was slender in proportion. Contact with members of the
lower castes always reminded him painfully of this physical inadequacy.
'I am I, and wish I wasn't'; his self-consciousness was acute and
distressing. Each time he found himself looking on the level, instead of
downward, into a Delta's face, he felt humiliated. Would the creature
treat him with the respect due to his caste? The question haunted him.
Not without reason. For Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons had been to some
extent conditioned to associate corporeal mass with social superiority.
Indeed, a faint hypnopædic prejudice in favour of size was universal.
Hence the laughter of the women to whom he made proposals, the practical
joking of his equals among the men. The mockery made him feel an
outsider; and feeling an outsider he behaved like one, which increased
the prejudice against him and intensified the contempt and hostility
aroused by his physical defects. Which in turn increased his sense of
being alien and alone. A chronic fear of being slighted made him avoid
his equals, made him stand, where his inferiors were concerned,
self-consciously on his dignity. How bitterly he envied men like Henry
Foster and Benito Hoover! Men who never had to shout at an Epsilon to
get an order obeyed; men who took their position for granted; men who
moved through the caste system as a fish through the water--so utterly
at home as to be unaware either of themselves or of the beneficent and
comfortable element in which they had their being.

Slackly, it seemed to him, and with reluctance, the twin attendants
wheeled his plane out on the roof.

'Hurry up!' said Bernard irritably. One of them glanced at him. Was that
a kind of bestial derision that he detected in those blank grey eyes?
'Hurry up!' he shouted more loudly, and there was an ugl