ed on the fourth
were the paper sound-track rolls on which the various hypnopædic lessons
were printed.

'You slip the roll in here,' explained Bernard, interrupting Dr.
Gaffney, 'press down this switch...'

'No, that one,' corrected the Provost, annoyed.

'That one, then. The roll unwinds. The selenium cells transform the
light impulses into sound waves, and...'

'And there you are,' Dr. Gaffney concluded.

'Do they read Shakespeare?' asked the Savage as they walked, on their
way to the Bio-chemical Laboratories, past the School Library.

'Certainly not,' said the Head Mistress, blushing.

'Our library,' said Dr. Gaffney, 'contains only books of reference. If
our young people need distraction, they can get it at the feelies. We
don't encourage them to indulge in any solitary amusements.'

Five bus-loads of boys and girls, singing or in a silent embracement,
rolled past them over the vitrified highway.

'Just returned,' explained Dr. Gaffney, while Bernard, whispering, made
an appointment with the Head Mistress for that very evening, 'from the
Slough Crematorium. Death conditioning begins at eighteen months. Every
tot spends two mornings a week in a Hospital for the Dying. All the best
toys are kept there, and they get chocolate cream on death days. They
learn to take dying as a matter of course.'

'Like any other physiological process,' put in the Head Mistress
professionally.

Eight o'clock at the Savoy. It was all arranged.

****

On their way back to London they stopped at the Television Corporation's
factory at Brentford.

'Do you mind waiting here a moment while I go and telephone?' asked
Bernard.

The Savage waited and watched. The Main Day-Shift was just going off
duty. Crowds of lower-caste workers were queued-up in front of the
monorail station--seven or eight hundred Gamma, Delta and Epsilon men
and women, with not more than a dozen faces and statures between them.
To each of them, with his or her ticket, the booking clerk pushed over a
little cardboard pillbox. The long caterpillar of men and women moved
slowly forward.

'What's in those' (remembering _The Merchant of Venice_), 'those
caskets?' the Savage enquired when Bernard had rejoined him.

'The day's _soma_ ration,' Bernard answered, rather indistinctly; for he
was masticating a piece of Benito Hoover's chewing-gum. 'They get it
after their work's over. Four half-gramme tablets. Six on Saturdays.'

He took John's arm affectionately and they walked back towards the
helicopter.

****

Lenina came singing into the Changing Room.

'You seem very pleased with yourself,' said Fanny.

'I _am_ pleased,' she answered. Zip! 'Bernard rang up half an hour ago.'
Zip, zip! She stepped out of her shorts. 'He has an unexpected
engagement.' Zip! 'Asked me if I'd take the Savage to the feelies this
evening. I must fly.' She hurried away towards the bathroom.

'She's a lucky girl,' Fanny said to herself as she watched Lenina go.

There was no envy in the comment; good-natured Fanny was merely stating
a fact. Lenina _was_ lucky; lucky in having shared with Bernard a
generous portion of the Savage's immense celebrity, lucky in reflecting
from her insignificant person the moment's supremely fashionable glory.
Had not the Secretary of the Young Women's Fordian Association asked her
to give a lecture about her experiences? Had she not been invited to the
Annual Dinner of the Aphroditæum Club? Had she not already appeared in
the Feelytone News--visibly, audibly and tactually appeared to countless
millions all over the planet?

Hardly less flattering had been the attentions paid her by conspicuous
individuals. The Resident World Controller's Second Secretary had asked
her to dinner and breakfast. She had spent one week-end with the Ford
Chief-Justice, and another with the Arch-Community-Songster of
Canterbury. The President of the Internal and External Secretions
Corporation was perpetually on the phone, and she had been to Deauville
with the Deputy-Governor of the Bank of Europe.

'It's wonderful, of course. And yet in a way,' she had confessed to
Fanny, 'I feel as though I wer